# Module 11 — Onsite SEO: Featured Snippets

## 1.How to Steal Featured Snippets - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Alright guys, now I'm going to teach you how to steal featured snippets. Before we get into this, let's talk about what are featured snippets in the first place. They're basically short answers that Google puts at the top of the SERP result. I'm going to show you some examples in a second, but essentially what it does is it's Google's way of giving the people the answer to the questions they're looking for without even having to leave the search result. It can get the answer right away because it's sitting there at the top. You don't even necessarily need to be the number one ranker in Google to have this position zero featured snippet position. It can be taken from as far back as page two. Now is this good for us or is it bad for us? In a sense it's kind of both. It's bad for us because it encourages the user not even to visit our sites. I mean why would they? They already got the answer to the question. But it's good for us because if we don't have the number one position we can steal it from our competition which is what I'm about to teach you to do. Some examples of featured snippets we have answers to how to questions like how to bowl a strike. Here we have an example of this answer in a paragraph form. About recipes like how to make homemade macaroni and cheese and the answers right here in ordered list form. There's even answers for weather questions, brand questions, a whole bunch of queries. There's different kinds of snippets that come up. My technique, what you're about to learn, it just straight up works. It's super effective. I've stolen snippets from way back on page two in position number 18. It's really really fast and easy. My friend Rob, we taught this to her wife who's a travel blogger and she got hers by the end of the day. The strategy works like this. It's pretty simple. You run a round of research. First you need to figure out which of the keywords that you're trying to rank for on your site have featured snippets in the first place. You can figure this out with SEMrush or Ahrefs. Then we're going to take a look at the structured markup or lack of structured markup on how they're taking the snippet. For example, let's go back here. The structure of this featured snippet answer is an ordered list. We see one, two, three, four. Here's a list. This guy right here, it's nothing. There is no structure here. What we're going to do is go back here. If they're using an ordered list, we're going to use an ordered list. If they're using a table, we're going to use a table. We're just basically going to copy what's already working. Then also we're going to take a look at in this third position the type of content. Sometimes the featured snippet doesn't exactly answer the question right on. It might be what are the ingredients of Garcinia Cambogia and then someone who has the answer the benefits of Garcinia Cambogia like weight loss and lack of fatigue, etc. Which might not even have anything to do with the ingredients. Sometimes Google gets it wrong, but we need to do the same thing because Google has shown us what it wants to see. Then lastly, now we figured out what to copy. Basically we're just going to do it better than everyone else. There's a bunch of techniques we're going to use. We're going to use Google synonyms, adding a lot of synonyms to our answers and a lot of scientific equivalent words when we can. Also we're going to proceed it with an H2. So if the answer to the question is ingredients in Garcinia Cambogia, we're going to proceed it with an H2. And also we're going to insert an optimized image by there. And by doing this, we're basically going to take over the featured snippet. It's these ingredients that really, really gets the job done. You copy what's already working. You do it better with synonyms, scientific equivalents, setting up with an H2 and an optimized image. Pretty simple. Let's go ahead and give you guys a demo though. All right guys, I'm going to give you guys an example walkthrough on how I would steal the snippet as if I were this site right here, juicerfanatics.com. And now I do not own this site. I have nothing to do with it and I'm not picking on it in any way. I'm just using it as an example. So basically we would load this thing up in Ahrefs and then we're going to click on organic keywords. And then we're going to go here to features and then we're going to click on featured snippet and hit apply. All right, so here's a bunch of keywords that this site is ranking for somewhere. We can see what its ranking is and it's a little bit too far down. But like these guys right here, these are on 41, it's page five, it's page four. These are out of range for the snippet in the first place. But let's see right here. So here's best press juicer. I'll take that to google.com and let's just take a look. We have number one, here's a featured snippet right here. We've got positive health and wellness.com and it's in a list format. And let's see if we can find juicerfanatics. Yeah, as expected, Ahrefs had it about right, sitting at 10 right now. So let's take a look at the snippet. What we can see about it is a few things. Number one is that they're using an unordered list. So we can see bullet points here, which may be generated by the content. They might actually have a bullet point list in the content or Google sometimes automatically inserts these in if the heading structure is right. So if these are all bunch of H2s that all happen to be different examples of best press juicers, that could automatically be generated. And we can figure that out right here. Let's just take a look. So this is the first one. Yeah, here it is. So this is a mega J8004. Let's actually just look at the source code. That is an H3. So this is an H3. This is an H3. That's probably an H2. Let's see the best cold press juicers. Let's see which one is it. H2, yeah. Okay, H2 here, H3s. And H3 and H3. SKG. It's very interesting. It made a list out of these H3s here which each represents juicers, but it started off the second one. It didn't start off the first one. Interesting. But anyhow, let's just take more notes here. Let's see. Okay, the juicers. All right. It's just basically a list of products, right? And I think that this page could definitely steal it from them. Let's see what it has going on. All right. Well, it's definitely not... I don't know what it might be right here. Okay, let's see if it has the same kind of structure. Let's see. This is Rpix for the best juicers on the market. We open up the source code. Rpix, yeah, H2. And then I'm guessing these are H3s, the actual products. Is that just a larger size? I'll try one more thing. Browsio.net. I'll get in here and it's just going to kind of show me exactly what it is. Okay, interesting. So Browsio.net is a cool little tool. It's free. It kind of just gives me a snapshot of what's going on with the heading structure and whatnot. And you see here, we have an H2. This is Rpix for the best juicers on the market. Kind of like what the guy in number one's doing. The guy in number one has a different H2 kind of kicking things off. But then the H3s on the other guy are listing off the different products. So this one's a little bit close, but it's going H2 and it doesn't break it down into subcategories. So the first suggestion I would have is make these an H3s. And we have some empty H2s here, which the crawler just doesn't like in the first place. So delete these and then convert all these guys to H3s. And then we're in the same situation of what was going on before. We're doing the exact same thing. Now let's see what we can do better. So remember, one thing that we're going to do is we are going to kick things off on H2. So this keyword is best pressed juicer. Let's see what they have here. I would definitely put the word press in here. So you could keep it out is Rpix for the best juicers on the market. But let's put the word press in there. And then we've successfully kicked off the snippet and it would probably get displayed right here in bold. Rpix for the best pressed juicer. What else are we going to do? We're going to insert an optimized image near here. Let's go ahead and skip over this for now because I'm going to show that in the next video. But essentially we want an image to be next to our area that we're getting the featured snippet that is highly optimized. I'd probably pick this one right here. And you see that this SERP result for positive health and wellness.com doesn't even have their own image in the snippet. That's taken by Best Products who's done a better job at stealing the image. Okay, so last thing. Remember we're going to use a lot of synonyms and also scientific words. So this is kind of hard for me to give an example for. So let's just ask Google are there any synonyms for juice? Synonyms for juice. That's not very good. Liquid, fluid. Drink extract. Seems like juice is just juice guys. Let's see. Not much we can do with this because there's not many synonyms here and I wouldn't say there's probably not a scientific name for juice either. But what you could do is simply enough the word press isn't in here at all in the content. Just once. I would toss it in a few more times and then there's a good chance you can take it. I would say for this one just in summary, just kicking it off on the H2, getting the structure in the right format that Google wants. Again kicking off the heading with an H2 and then H3 is underneath that. We don't have much synonyms to go with but we can optimize the image near it and also put in the word press more often. The current configuration, the current winner doesn't have the word press anywhere. After this I can almost guarantee we would still just snip it.


## 1.In Closing - The Affiliate Lab.ts

In closing, first things first, thank you. Thank you so much for finishing the training. Thank you for listening to me and letting me do the number one thing I like to do other than actually ranking sites, which is to teach SEO. Truly, thank you. So now you have the keys to the castle. What are you going to do with it? Let me just give you a few words of advice on how to best apply this training and get the most of it before going forward. So your first key to success is this. Be very detail oriented. Follow the videos to a T. If you follow the videos, you will get success. I never don't rank, but you have to follow them precisely. Track everything that you do in your tracking templates. The only way to get past debugs is to have all the data possible. And like I mentioned before, that's what truly makes a good SEO, what you do in the debug situations. Also, never give up. Just don't give up. This process works. Beware if you find yourself getting impatient because this is SEO and patience is absolutely necessary. You now have the foundation on how to rank and monetize niche affiliate sites, but the truth is I've taught you 20% of it. The other 80% is going to be taught by experience. So take action now. Start the experiential learning curve right now. Also, I recommend after you've built one site, build more sites. Affiliate SEO, I've used this analogy before, but affiliate SEO is a lot like roulette, but the odds of winning are stacked in your favor. And when you do win, you win really big. Think of it like this. Roulette is like a 50-50 game, whether or not you put it on red or black. Let's just think of affiliate SEO is like a 65-35. And depending on your skill, you can get that up to 85-15. So what would you do if they had a game like this in the casino? You would just play it more and more and increase your chances of winning. Also, network. Get into networking. Talk with other people about SEO. Get more involved. If you're new to SEO, this all sounds nice and dandy, but it isn't real for you yet. Get to know others and it becomes more real and more tangible. And also help others and they'll help you back. If you've mastered anchor text, for example, then you can get help from others on topics that you quite haven't gotten down yet. And I'm not saying you need to go to every conference, every mastermind event you can, but get involved in the Facebook group at the very least. That's a perfect place to start. I've learned a huge chunk of my SEO knowledge from groups like these. Testing. SEO is ever changing. The only way to stay ahead and continue to dominate is to constantly be open to change. And the only way to detect change is through testing. I will never stop testing and I will always share everything I learned with you. Trust me on that. But I'm just one man. You can help out too with your own tests and we can all get better together. So not that you even want to see any more videos right now. You're probably on information overload. There is more content to come on some even more advanced topics that I'm super excited to share with you. But in closing, once again, thank you so much. Thank you for the opportunity to do something I really love, which is to empower others to living the life they want it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.


## 2.Webinar- Featured Snippet Mastery with Tom De Spiegelaere - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Third one, thanks for coming out for this weekly lab webby. What we're gonna be doing today is I'm gonna be handing things over to Tom Despigalare. Is that all right? Nice, yep. All right, good stuff. Who is generally known as the featured snippet master. He's really good at feature snippets. He takes it to the next level. I've seen what he's done on his own websites. He's in the hardest technology niche possible, arguably. And yeah, he's a solid affiliate SEO. He's also the same dude who came on for my YouTube for an interview and basically he used to be an agency SEO and he was doing quite well with it. He started to play around with affiliate and decimated his agency income, created more freedom in his life, got more free time on his hands and now he's like full-time affiliate, I believe, right Tom? Yep, full-time. Don't have any clients anymore. Full-time, it's awesome. Cool, so without further ado, I'll hand it over to you and I'll make you presenters so you can get on with the stuff. And as usual, guys, if you have any questions, just dump them in the questions box and I'll help relay those questions to get old Tom. Okay, so. Okay, so I tossed it over to you. All right. Let's see. I think I'm showing my screen. You are. Yes, feature snippets, it's a process. Big screen, cool. All right. So guys, so today I'm gonna go as deep as I possibly can without breaching any JV contracts that involve snippet testing, which is pretty done far. Now, the first thing and the last thing you need to remember about feature snippets is, it's a process. It's not a science step-by-step do this and you get them. It's literally a trial and error process. But it is the fastest SEO process that we have because you can recrawl the same page multiple times a day to check if you've got the snippet. So progress in this area and getting snippets is really, really quick. All right, start with some things to keep in mind. Everything it follows, personal experiences. It's not bulletproof. These are not large scale tests I'm doing. These are things I'm doing on my own affiliate sites and the tests are all contained within my portfolio. So I do believe there are a lot of factors involved in giving snippets, a lot more than it used to be. Like a year ago versus now it's day and night. So first off, I've noticed that organic position on the first page does really matter. Like you can get a snippet when you're position eight but it's a lot easier when you're position three. Also, I think overall domain authority and page authority does have weight, not a lot, but it's definitely there. And I do believe it's increased in weight, like the weight factor of getting a snippet through page authority has increased in the last year as well. Now, if you really can't grab the snippet for a specific keyword, go for keyword plus year or keyword plus something else. Like you can still get those types of snippets without actually getting the primary keyword that you're going after as a sort of lost, that we already call it. Anyway, if you can't get the primary keyword, keyword plus year works very well, I do it myself. Now, like I told you, because you can recrawl pages multiple times a day, progress is super, super fast compared to anything else we do in SEO. And definitely, if you start split testing multiple pages on the same domain multiple times a day. So you can test different structures and different templates at the same time. So in a single day, you can get a whole lot of snippet work done. Now, lots of authority sites have snippets without buyer's guides. I'm not kidding here. Like really high authority sites, sometimes have like a hundred word intro and then straight up into their list and they get the snippet. So buyer's guides obviously helps and is needed to rank those long tail keywords to add topical relevance, et cetera. But purely for snippets dealing purposes, it is not needed, which is very, very interesting. Now- You might break that down a little bit further. So like, you know, like what I understand of this is like, you had the list at the beginning, this is my top five best protein powders and the guide at the bottom, which is usually for fluff content. Can you break down what you mean as well? Yeah, that's exactly what I mean. So if you look at your average affiliate page, you've got an intro, yeah, talking about the benefits and what people will be reading about. Then you've got your list title, then you've got your list items. And underneath that, you've got like, how to find the best products and then the features, et cetera. That's your buyer's guide. You can, just to steal snippets, you can theoretically scrap the entire buyer's guide and still get the snippet because the snippet structure is pulled from that list, not from the buyer's guide. And I've seen this time and time again with high authority domains that literally have almost no content outside of the snippet structure itself. So in our case, the list, but still get that snippet. Does that explain it? No, for me, if anyone has any more questions that we can take them later. Yeah, so I will be focusing mostly on the best X type pages comparisons. So list snippets, I won't be focusing on how tos or specific like review products snippets. It'll be list snippets only because that's where I specialize in, but you can use all these tactics for the other snippet types as well. All right, why you need them. And this is key. This, I first wasn't gonna put this in because I think everybody knows why snippets are important, but I just wanted to put some numbers on it to show you. So let's say you've got a best X keyword with a rough tool search volume of 6,000 a month. This includes like best X 2019 and some variations here and there. 6,000 search volume per month. Let's say you're at position six, your CTR and that position as far as I could find is around 3.5%. So that would be, let's say 210 clicks per month, right? Let's say commissions on the product sales are $50 per sale. Let's say your conversion rate is 1%. So that's around two sales per month, which means you've got $100 a month on that page being at position six. Now you get to work. You start grabbing some snippets. Spend a few days and you got the main snippets for your best X keyword. Also, by the way, usually when you get one snippet, you get almost every one. Like almost all snippets related to that keyword, you can grab in one swoop. It's amazing. Now you're at position zero. Click through rates. Let's say it's around 10%. It really differs from industry per industry, but on average, let's say you click through rates. For the feature snippets, it's 10%. Suddenly you're at 600 clicks per month. Now you didn't spend any money. Now the single dollar was spent, right? This is just on-page work. Your conversion rate is now 2%. Why two? Because the higher up the first page you are, the more inherent trust you have. I see this time and time again as my affiliate sites, my rankings go up. My conversion rate actually goes up as well. You're not the third pick that people go to. You're pick number one. You're at the top. You've got their trust. Way easier to convert. Conversion rate, 2%. You've got 12 sales. Now you've got $600 per month. So you just six X your income in a few days without spending a single dollar. And this is why feature snippets are really important. This is a low value product. Imagine doing this with higher ticket items, like 1K a month becomes 6K a month for most people that changes lives just by doing some on-page work. I really wanted to get that out there. They're really, really important. And this is the reason why. I know Diggity called me the snippet guy because I absolutely loved him. All right, basics. Get your list of keywords that have the snippets and put them all in your rank tracker. Just Google the HREF blog posts on feature snippets because then you can filter all your keywords for the ones that actually have feature snippets. But you don't have the snippet yet. You can export that, put it in your rank tracker. So you've got a base to work off and see where you have feature snippets, where you need to work on, et cetera, et cetera. And start with focusing on a single keyword to steal the snippet. And you need a little bit of experience here. Like if you've got a medium authority site and everyone above you is high authority sites, don't go for your super main epic golden keyword. Go with a keyword plus a year, for example. Just choose a single keyword to focus on to steal that snippet. Now, obviously make sure your on-page is on point. Follow the lab course and use server SEO or whatever you want to use to make sure that you're as optimized as humanly possible. Cover all the subtopics, add that buyer's guide, make sure you're ranking for all those long tail keywords, et cetera. So basically on page 101. Now, mistakes I still see after all this is check your image alt tags, empty heading tags. Man, I see so many empty heading tags. It's ridiculous. Like in WordPress, when you add an image and then you add an enter after it or you add the image before the heading, suddenly you've got an image inside a heading tag or you add a double enter after that. Suddenly you've got a white space. That's actually an H3 tag. Check your empty heading tags. They're useless. They need to go. Obviously broken links. Check your meta title, meta description, et cetera. I tend to use SEO Minion, which is a Chrome extension. Really good for quickly checking where things are right and where things are wrong. That's free as well. All right, next step, copy the current snippet. Check the snippet type. Usually list snippets are to go to with best X queries. Now, check all the heading tags. How are they structured? Again, this is snippet 101. Usually the H2 is list title. H3s are the list item titles. It could be different for your query, but double check that all the headings are there and copy the same structure. Check the number of list items. Check the rough word count plus image count per list item. Check any structured data within those list items as well. Are they using bullet points? Are they unordered or ordered lists within the list items? Check H4s. Sometimes the titles of pros and cons of main features within those list items are H4s instead of just bold text. Check that. Copy that. Then check the stats and numbers like product specs. Are they mentioned within those list items? Copy those as well. Google loves scientific words and statistics and numbers, like Diggity actually said in his featured snippet blog post. That really works. The point is, copy what the competition is doing. So you've got a baseline to work with. So copy this closely as firmly as possible. Now while you're doing this, mistakes have come across. And this is if this first one is super important, because again, I see this all the time. And just by doing this, you can grab a lot of snippets. So obviously make sure they're nested properly. And make sure that once you've got your H2 and then all your H3 list items, make sure that after that, you don't have immediately an H3 that says, how we review these products? No, because then that H3 is part of the H2 list section, so that doesn't make any sense. So the next section should start in an H2, not an H3. Make sure everything's nested and isolated from each other. And this is a big one. Look out for conflicting headings that could confuse Google. There should be only one best X heading on the page, which should be the list title. Aside from maybe your H1 page title, which is allowed to have that. But after that, like for the Buyer's Guide title, you don't want best X how to find the top ones. Because then again, you're using that best X heading. Might confuse Google. Like where am I going to pull all this data from? From heading number two, that has best product. Or the heading number three, that has best product. Make sure you minimize your headings and make it as clear as possible which one is the list title. This really makes a difference. Yes, so this is an example I actually, I've seen maybe four times in the past month. And every single time it moved somebody up in the queue to grab a snippet. So if you have a table, which a lot of review pages do, and then a list of reviews, I've seen people put the best X title above a table and then best X title above the reviews as well. Well, Google's like, so what do I use here? What do you want Google to use? If you want Google to use the actual list, just remove the title above the table. You don't need it. Again, minimalist approach to headings. All right, the process. Once the initial page is finished, inspect URL in Google Search Console and request to index. And then you can check again by going to inspect URL again, then click on crawled page to check. Tommy, there are here some crickly crackly. All right, I've put it into. All right, can everybody hear me now? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I think you're back at check, inspect URL. I think that's where we lost you. Oh, wow. Okay. No worries. Yeah, and I'm just reading a chat here. Apparently I'm going a little bit too fast. Just fine, I can definitely slow it down. All right, I'll just go to the questions first before I move on. It'll be easier. So first off, you can probably give us the, can we upload a PowerPoint somewhere? After the... We can put it in the Facebook group or we can attach it to the upload to the course. No worries. All right, all right, cool. And Bobby asks, list of reviews, what's the meaning there? Well, with list of reviews, I mean your actual list on your money page. So for example, if you're talking about, let's say best smartphones, you have a list title, which is an H2 heading called Best Smartphones 2019. Yes, the list of products that you are discussing. So when I say list of reviews, I always mean the actual, like top 10 products that you're reviewing on your money page. No worries. Next one is, he mentioned minimalistic headaches and tables. Hey, has he seen any difference using plug-in for tables like school favorite plugins or hard-go to tables or headers? Well, headers are usually manually done anyway. It's just your H2s or H3s that you manually put in to WordPress. As far as tables go, I haven't split tested different tables. At the moment, I used table press. Now I use Ninja Tables, well, Ninja Tables Pro actually, because it's really good with, has really good responsive options. I think that's about it. If you have any more questions, just put them in the chat box. So I'll just go over the process again. So once you've copied your competition, talking about structure, heading structure, check the actual reviews on the page. So also known as list items. I use those terms both under the same thing. Check the word count, images, bullet points, unordered lists, product specifications, et cetera. You wanna copy this structure of the current snippet as closely as possible. Then you go to Google Search Console, you say inspect URL, and then your request to index it. Then 10 minutes later or whatever, you can go back to inspect URL and then hit the crawled page to see if Google has actually cached your changes to the page. And then you can check if you have those snippets. Probably not. So the next thing you do is you go, let's take smartphones again. Go to Google and say best smartphones, and then minus the domain of the site that currently has the snippet. Because that will eliminate or remove that domain from search results. So it'll show the next in line that has the snippet. If it's not you, you can add that second domain as well to your query. Best smartphones minus competition one, minus competition two.com. And then check maybe you've got the snippet as a third one. And that's how you do it. So after that, you make changes to your structure, to your page, you re-crawl it, check if Google has cached it, and re-check where you are in line for the snippet. And that's the basic process. So make changes, re-crawl check. Make changes, re-crawl check. Does that make sense? Are you using any re-crawl tool? Just Google Webmaster Cache. Again, it's a pretty easy Google search console. Use the inspect URL tool, and then you can just say request indexing. It'll re-crawl your page, and then add it to the queue to index. Okay. Changes to make, that could get you the snippet. The first things I always do is I increase my list item word count. So the reviews themselves make them longer. I increase the number of specifications, product specifications, inside each review. Like for smartphones, if your competition is only mentioning disk space or hard drive size and camera, you can add specifications about the screen, for example, or specifications about, does it have a headphone jack or not? So increase the number of specifications mentioned, and number of factual items in the list, which usually is the same as your specifications, just to cover the basics. Next, add the year to both the meta title and the H2 list title, which is pretty much a must these days. You've got plugins that dynamically change the year, so you don't need to do it manually. Same with your meta title, Yoast, for example, has a handy little variable that you can input and it outputs the current year. You can also do that with the month, if you wanna go really, really specific. Now, structural changes seem to have more impact than content changes. I've seen this a lot. So your content should already be optimized with server SEO or similar, but the things that you can do is, if you have a table above your list, remove the table, see what happens, or move it under your list. Move image positions within list items. Some product reviews start with the image of the product and then go into the product review. Why not start with the product review and then in the image, same with pros and cons, maybe start with pros and cons or move them down. Change, like pros and cons, the title is changing to normal text or H4s, depending on what they were before. Add more H4s inside your list item. Works too, for example, let's go back to smartphones. Let's say you're reviewing the iPhone. You can have a review about the iPhone, then pros and cons, and then call to action, or you can have review about the iPhone and then as an H4, I don't know, let's say, the screen, for example, and then you talk about the screen and then as an H4, you can talk about, like camera could be an H4 within your review and then you talk about a camera. So you're not only increasing the word count that way, but you're also adding subsections within each review. Helps, you can move your entire list, like your entire sort of snippet section, let's say, up or down the page. Why not eliminate the entire intro of your page, just to test it out and move it up? All helps. But again, as you can see, there's lots of variables to test. So the best way to test this is to actually go and do it across multiple pages at the same time. Yeah. I guess, and this one, test different list title headings in combo with different meta titles. So if you have best smartphones for 2019, try the 15 best smartphones 2019, or best 15 smartphones 2019 reviews. Just try different combinations there. Okay. Now can everybody still hear me? Gotcha. All right, cool. Any questions at this point? If not, that's fine. All right, anyway, these are the main changes to tests if you want to steal snippets. If you want to steal snippets. I would start with, again, increasing the word counts, specifications and the actual number of items in the list itself. If the competition is covering five, cover 10. Right, if competition has 300 words per review, go at 500. If they discuss two specifications per product, go with five specifications per product, just to cover the basics. Once you've done that, going to structural stuff. The structure is where most of the changes happen. All right, remove the intro, cut the intro in half, add more intro, add more headings above your actual list. But of course the headings can't be related to best smartphone, something, something, something. We don't want to confuse Google. What's the most amount of trial and error that you've had to go through to get a snippet? Like iterations and experiments and stuff like that. On one keyword, I'm still on going after like, maybe four months with a month break in between, mainly because most of the competition I've got that has the snippet. I think I'm number seven on the page. And like the top three has like five times the amount of authority to their page compared to mine page. Sure, sure. And that's another argument to why snippets are so powerful because you're not going to get past their authority anytime soon, but you can weasel past them for the snippet today. Exactly. So in that specific case, while I don't have my primary keyword snippet, I do own all the snippets when you add 2019, the year on the end. I own all of those, but I can't seem to get the main keywords. I think just because the authority is a massive hurdle there. All right. So like I've said before, test this stuff across multiple pages, targeting different keywords at the same time, using different variants. Right. You really want to do this if you want to speed things up because you can note down the winning structures. Every time you make a change and you see, whoa, I've got more snippets, note it down. Test it again on more pages to verify if it's actually a thing, put it in like a winners column. Right. Yeah. Okay. So Bobby asks, does adding the year and give you a lot of additional traffic for that specific keyword? I haven't tested how much traffic it gets without the snippet, but I can tell you that let's say I see at least a 30% increase in traffic if I get the snippets by adding the year. So it's not that just adding the year gives me more traffic. It's adding the year resulted in me getting the snippet and that added the traffic. But either way, I think everybody should use the current year and the review sort of keyword strategies. Fene asks, for testing, you're making quite a few changes at once. How are you narrowing down to what worked? Are you splits testing? If so, how? Yeah. So as I've said before, you can, I sort of split test across multiple pages, right? So first I have a baseline, let's say I've got five pages where I copy the competition, the snippet. And then one page number one, I just change, do a structural change. Like I cut the intro in half, see what it does. For page number two, maybe I changed some headings. I see what it does. For page number three, I try something else. And then I re-crawl every single one of them and see which one actually made a change. If two out of those five pages actually moved up or got a few snippets, I know that the changes I made to those two pages actually worked. So then I can combine those changes and add them to the other three pages that didn't get a result. Recrawl those pages again, see, so I can verify that it worked. If it works, that's great. Now I've got a new baseline. I can deploy these two changes across all my five pages, move up to the next list of changes I wanna make. And that's basically how I do it. Does that make sense? Cool, no worries. All right, so again, note down the winning structures and test those again so you can actually verify what happens. Get a master list of winning structures and then if you've tested enough and you're happy with the changes that you've made or you hit the point where you're like, all right, I'm done for today or I'm done for the week, deploy it site-wide straight up. If you have 20 money pages, just deploy them across all your money pages. And then suddenly you've got a whole heap of snippets. You earn more money and then just keep testing a week later or two weeks later, whenever you feel like it. Do maybe even grab more snippets or more competitive keywords. It's a pretty easy way to increase your revenue by quite a lot. And then just repeat until you catch them all. Got to catch them all. Got to catch them all, yep. Good stuff, all right. Well, let's see, if anyone has some additional questions now that time to ask them, but in the meantime, I just want to say thanks, Tom. You've really gotten this process down and guys, I know it seems like a lot of things that you see in SEO or taught in SEO, they sound like, okay, this sounds challenging. This is something that is a process that's going to take my time, but I've seen Tom's website. I've seen his income levels. It's freaking worth it for sure. Absolutely. It really is. It's really not that hard. And in the grand scheme of things, it's like this kind of feedback, this kind of quick result is unheard of in SEO. So it's something that you can do today and get results for. Okay, so questions are starting to come in. You know that, and all that, so I'll let you go ahead. Yeah, cool. All right, so Bobby asks, this is only for e-commerce type sites. No, it's for affiliate sites. So, and more specifically, comparison pages on affiliate sites, like best smartphones 2019, for example. Or maybe that's what you mean with e-commerce sites, but am I, yeah, my e-commerce is actual online shops. And I'm talking about comparison pages, comparison money pages on affiliate sites. Like your average Amazon affiliate site with best X pages. Yeah, that said, it does work for affiliate, or e-commerce type sites too. We do a lot of e-commerce at the search initiative and we do this stuff all the time, it works. Yeah, any other questions? You mentioned Ninja tools, no, sorry, Ninja tables, I think I said. I've seen the advertising for Ninja tools, I haven't checked them out. I said Ninja tables, so I use Ninja tables pro as my table plugin. If you don't have, another question from Bobby, if you don't have comparison pages, what parts of this can you use? So, you have different, yeah, the other types of snippets that you've got are like how to snippets are pretty big and general question snippets, but I think Diggity can probably answer this one better than I can, because my specialization is literally in list snippets. Yeah, I'm pretty dialed into affiliate SEO tools and like most of the snippets that are gonna come up for our kind of sites on affiliate are gonna be, yeah, list snippets or tables, you know, anything that's kind of summarizing what you're writing on a best protein powder page. There's also like a lot of, like Tom is talking about informational content snippets, like how to brew beer, for example, there's probably a snippet for that. I think, but those are a little bit different, like Tom's talking about like how to get snippets with lists with like H2 and stuff like that, the informational queries are usually just pulling out a paragraph, something like that. And what I've seen there, the best technique, like let's say, for example, what's, if you've seen the NLP training, like what's the best temperature to brew beer at? Then if you give the answer back and you echo the question, the best temperature to brew beer is, then you give the answer 15 degrees, and then the units Fahrenheit, something like that, that's obviously the wrong answer, you can't brew it 15 degrees Fahrenheit, but if you serve it up in that format, that has a high chance of getting the informational queries that are just kind of like a bunch of texts laid out there. Hope that makes sense. Anything else? I maybe want to mention that also as an extra thing, we're talking about tables versus lists themselves. So you've got either HTML tables or whatever responsive tables versus the actual H2 and H3 review list structure. At the moment, in my industries, actually, I'm seeing overwhelmingly that you can overtake table snippets with lists, like they seem to be more powerful. I don't know if you see the same, Matt. Yeah, most of the time, like, I think Google's starting to figure out that, like, yeah, most of the time it can be answered with the list, and that's better. Tables are funky, too, because everyone makes their tables differently in HTML, so I think Google's having a hard time wrapping their head around it, but lists are always in format, chronically, in any order, whatever. The cool thing about this is, well, we might have covered quite a few things today. Just, if we get the slides available, you can just go through it. One thing at a time, but once you start doing this, let's say in a month or two, and you really know what you're doing, and it's like, you know it off the back of your hand, how to do these things. The cool thing is that you can, you start to get a gut feeling for which specific changes get a lot of results compared to the competition. What I mean with that is, let's say the competition has a snippet, I don't have it. I know that structure one that I identified will get me the snippet, but so will structure two and structure three is even more powerful. I usually only implement structure one. I get the snippet then I wait. If the competition retaliates, updates their page, and they get the snippet, I literally within the same day, boom, structure two implemented, I get the snippet again. So at one point, at some point, if you do this a lot, you'll have changes in your notes that you know will always better the competition if they use a specific design, which means, yes, Bobby just said it's a snippet war. It really is, it really is. And you don't reveal your hands or all of it at the same time. Once you know what you're doing, you can reveal a little bit, take the snippet, wait, see what happens. Competition pops up, take it straight away, straight away. And just do that over and over again. It's really fun. All right, any final questions before we wrap it up? Evanay, you asked earlier if we're gonna be putting this online. Like all webinars get put online, so don't worry about that. Everyone will have a chance to review it. And Tom, if you're cool, we'll put the PPT app somewhere as well. Yeah, I'll email it to you. All right, well, everybody, let's give a big hand to Tom there. He's super generous with this, really appreciate it. And this is super valuable information for sure. Are you attending Changmai Aseo Conference, Vinay asked? Yes, of course. I'm already counting down every year. Okay, cool. Everyone's a lot of, oh, you have beer. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thanks, Tom. Big thanks for me. You're awesome, dude. And we'll talk soon, man. All right, cool. Thanks. See everybody. Bye. Bye. Bye.


## 3.Ranking in Google Images - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Alright, alright, alright. Now this is ranking in Google Images. I'm sure you're well familiar with Google Image Search, but did you know you can actually rank your pictures in it and it's really, really, really easy? And by doing so you can actually secure some really important search results such as the hottest girl in Chiang Mai or your own sea. A very nice holiday gift to give your girlfriend, like I've done for mine, and getting to rank in both the Google search results and Google Images. In addition to that, my buddy Dino Gomez, if you didn't already know this from fact, he's actually the best-looking guy in San Diego and since Google says so it must be true. So here's Dino right here, and here's him in the image search. And I don't know if you guys know my buddy James Dooley, but he actually is also the hottest girl in Manchester five times over. And here he is showing up in the image search next to some beauties. Now this isn't just all about fun and gains, but it can be very much about fun and gains, but the actual practical application for you and your affiliate sites is just knowing that the highest image steals the features snippet. Not too many people are looking for information in the Google image results, but they do look for information from straight up Google and a lot of the times the answer as you learned in the last video will come up in the form of a feature snippet. And what you also might have noticed in the last video is whoever's ranking number one for the feature snippet might not have this image here, and this image is a good chunk of real estate. It's very, very possible, but that when someone sees this answer to what is the best wood router, they decide, okay, I want to learn more. This looks very nice to click on. I'm going to click that. They're going to end up going to wood router center, not vet belt senderexpert.com. So this is a very, very quick and easy way to weasel out very feature snippet, and you don't even need to be near page one with your result to steal one of these. Here's how you do it. Step one. Place your image, the one that you want to rank, near text that you want to rank for. So for example, if we want to rank for the best washing machine, I might place or the best washing machine under $500. I might place an image right next to this text right here, and here's the image that I would want to show up in the feature snippet. And then when I upload that image, I'm going to put in a very similar file name and alt tag to what I want to rank for. So I'll do, I'll call the file like less than $500washingmachine.png and the alt tag for it would be the best washing machine under $500. I don't go exact here. I just varied it up a little bit. Then you go out and you get this fiber gig. The exact URL to the fiber gig, I'll give you in the resources below, but basically what you're going to do here is you just give them a little bit of information. Where can they find the image? And they're going to put that image on all these like imager and Pinterest and all these image sharing sites, and they're going to reference your original image. After that, it's a little bit of a waiting game. Typically, you're going to see yourself somewhere in the images like maybe the 10th one down to the 21th down pretty soon, within a few days, and it'll slowly start climbing up there. If, per chance, it does get stuck, like it doesn't make it to the number one, the optional thing you can do here is use a PBN. So if it's stubborn, use a PBN to reference this money sites hosted image. What I mean by that is when on the PBN, you're going to use this kind of call in the HTML. So for the source file, I'm not referencing anything on the PBN itself. I'm referencing the original file. This is your site.com less than 500 washing machine PMG. The same one that I put on the site before, and I'm going to reference that one on the other site. And if you do this, I've never not been able to rank number one for the images.
