# Module 12 — Onsite SEO: Affiliate Links

## 1.Creating Affiliate Links - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Creating your affiliate links. This is a very short section as the process is super simple but I'll just give you a brief overview of what you're going to learn. First you're going to learn how to cloak your non-Amazon affiliate links and in addition to that how to make Amazon compliant affiliate links. So just to specify very clearly here, do not cloak Amazon links. They hate that, they will ban you for this. Quick FAQ. What is the deal with above the fold affiliate links? I get this question quite often. Can I have affiliate links above the fold? Meaning they're in the top section of my website before I scroll down. In my opinion I don't really mess with it too much. We can only guess that Google is going to get more and more strict towards commercial intent or commercial oriented and money making websites, affiliate websites. They don't like that kind of thing. So what I basically do, I can have or I tend to have affiliate links above the fold but they're only in the sidebar. The question I get is how many affiliate links do you have for page? This is untested. I really don't have any rule to this but I sometimes have up to 20 cloaked affiliate links on a page. I don't see any issue with having too many affiliate links on the page even though Google has rolled out and people have commented on when you have too much affiliate content or affiliate on the page they could penalize you for it. I've had situations where I've varied the number of affiliate links from 1 to 20 and played around with this and it doesn't seem to have an effect on the rankings at all. So again, I say at the maximum I'll have about 20 but it doesn't really seem to matter in my case.


## 2.Link Cloaking - The Affiliate Lab.ts

This video is all about link cloaking. Just a quick primer, a big warning if you will. This section only applies to non-Amazon sites and non-Amazon affiliate links. Amazon hates this. They hate renaming of links. You can only do it in certain situations that follow their guidelines. So do not do anything like this. This will get your account banned. Alright, now that we've established this, the question is why would you want to cloak your affiliate links in the first place? First answer is they just look cleaner, right? If you have an affiliate link like this, which is very, very typical, this is what is typically generated for you right out of the affiliate network for the product that you're trying to promote, a whole bunch of gibberish, a whole bunch of indicators that this is an affiliate product. If someone sees this, they'll know that and they're not likely to click that. Instead, you can clean things up. You can make it look like this. Like, http, yoursite.com recommends product. It just looks a lot cleaner and shorter and doesn't stink of affiliate. In addition to that, it might, and I say this with a big might, hide the affiliate link from Google. Let's just back up for a second. First of all, Google hates affiliates. I've been doing affiliate SEO for a while, years and years, coming on a decade now. The restrictions on affiliate sites has only grown throughout the years. The leeway we used to have before just started to slowly, slowly shrivel over the years, and I continue to see it going that direction. So, just a fact, Google doesn't really like affiliate websites. Now, do I believe that the techniques that I'm about to show you actually works? Does it actually hide affiliate links from Google? Not really. I can dig through it and I can figure it out as a human. Perhaps it works enough for the robot or particularly their detections on what they really care about. But at the end of the day, again, we do 100% clean SEO here. When it comes down to debugging, if you have a site stuck, you know, three months later, you want the minimum amount of variables on the table to debug, right? You don't want to have 50 things that could be the cause of your site being stuck. This is just one of those things. Is my site stuck because I have too many affiliate links on my page? Well, just go ahead and implement this and you won't have to worry about that when it comes down to it. Step one on cloaking your affiliate links. You're going to go to the C panel and you're going to create a directory. If you're familiar with C panels, it's very, very simple. You just click on the file manager thing and create a directory at your root. Some examples of names for these things. You can use site.com and products or recommendations, links, loves, promo or deals. Then after that, you're going to go into your robots.txt file. That's also openable with your file manager and you're going to add this line. Disallow colon forward slash and then the directory name that you just named last time. So an example of this would be disallow colon forward slash promo forward slash. Very, very simple. Then you're going to install the redirection plugin. This is where you get it WordPress.org plugins redirection. You're going to install it in WordPress and then to set it up, you got a tools redirection. Then you're going to add this redirection below. So basically what this does is just creates a 301 redirect. So the source URL, so this is my directory name products. Then after that, I'm going to have the particular slug that I want to use for the product that I'm promoting. So maybe it's sunglasses for example. This is the target URL. This would have been the weird affiliate long link that you're trying to replace and get rid of. You go ahead and put all this stuff in here. You can leave match URL only action redirect to URL. Everything is cool here. Click add redirection and you're good to go. That's it. Clicking easy. Hey guys, this is Jason and I wanted to show you a few things about link cloaking. So after you've logged into your cPanel, go to your file manager. Make sure that you're in the correct directory. So for us right now, we want to be in the directory called public HTML of the domain called skin starts with Z. So now that we're in this in the correct directory, you need to create a new folder. So you click on folder. And you're going to type in here the folder name that you want to create. So for this example, we're going to call it promo. And click create new folder. Now we have that there. The next part is we want to edit the robots txt file. So we're going to click on it and click edit. Once we're inside, we want to add the line disallow promo. That's the directory we just made. And we're going to click save. Now what we need to do is we have to go to the WordPress. So now that we logged into our WordPress, what we have to do is install a plugin. So we're going to go to plugins, add new, and we're going to find a plugin called redirection. So we're going to search for it. And once we find it, we're going to install it. This is the correct plugin. This one here, it says redirect. We're going to click install now. What we need to do after we install it and we activate it, we need to go and configure the links. So now that I'm activating it in a few seconds, I'll be able to go down here to tools and then redirection. This is where I'm going to configure my links. So source URL, what we're going to put is we're going to put the folder name that we created in the C panel. So for this example, we're going to put slash promo slash and then whatever we want to name the link. So if it's like a product name or an easy name you want to remember, you just enter it. So for this example, I'm going to put skincare, like product. Target URL here is going to be the affiliate link. So for this example, I'm just going to put a random URL from Overvolt. Like for example, if you're a fill in network, it would give you a link that's gibberish. So it would be like Overvolt, blah, blah, like all the gibberish in the end. Then you click add redirect. Now this would be the link that you're going to use inside your site. So if we click on it, let's copy it. And then if we go here and paste it, as you can see, it's skins starts with C.com slash promo slash skincare product. If we click on it, it's going to redirect us to the offerable page, which doesn't exist because we just made it up. And that's basically it. It's very simple. You can make as many links as you want. And later on, if you need to just go and change the link, you can just click edit and then change your affiliate link. That's it. It's pretty straightforward.


## 3.How to Create Amazon Compliant Affiliate Links - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Hey guys, so I just want to create a quick video on how to make Amazon compliant affiliate links. So the first thing obviously is you need to sign up for the Amazon Associates account which I've already done. And one thing to note about it is that when you first sign up you have 30 days to make your first sale. And if you don't make a sale within those 30 days your account will get suspended. And the way around this is to have someone else buy from one of your affiliate links you can just buy something cheap just to keep your account alive. And another thing about Amazon is that their terms of service is so vague that it's hard to know which can get you suspended and what not. And for example, Genius Links used to work but now you can actually get banned from using it. And so the way we do it now is to just use either the long URL or the shortened URL version of Amazon. So I'll show you the long one first. Let's pick a random product right here. So let's pick this one. And then what I do is I just find the product code which is right here usually after this one DP. So this one's the product code and then you just delete everything after the product code. And then after you've deleted it just put a question mark tag and then put in your referral ID. So for this one I'm just going to put JLS-20 and then enter and then this is your affiliate link now. So whenever you make a sale using this affiliate link you'll get credit for that sale. So the next one is to use the shortened version of Amazon and I'll show you how to do it. So let's just go back real quick. So to do the shortened version whenever you're logged in to your Amazon Associates account and you're scanning or browsing amazon.com this menu bar right here will show up. So whenever you land on a product page that you want to sell you just click this button right here get link and then you'll get the shortened version of that affiliate link right here. You can also choose which tracking ID you want to use for that affiliate link which is right up top here. Also you can get the full link right here which I don't like doing because it's pretty messy I like using the one I just showed you. So those are the two ways you can get Amazon compliant affiliate links.
