# Module 13 — Onsite SEO: CRO

## 1.Conversion Rate Optimization (CRO) Primer - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Welcome to the Conversion Rate Optimization intro video. CRO is where you make adjustments to your site to make sure that the current visitors are doing what you want them to do more often, namely buying your products. CRO is actually my favorite part of SEO. This is my passion. As fun as SEO is in solving problems, getting rankings, and all this nerdy stuff, I really, really love and enjoy the process of optimizing existing sales. Why is that? Well, number one, the results appear right away. If I increase the buttons conversion rate by 20%, that button brings in $1,000 a month. Immediately, this same month, I'm going to make $1,200 from it. The results are instant. There's a very cool story. So when Lead Spring was first starting out in one of our first few months, we decided, okay, let's set a goal, a target for ourselves. We're going to double revenue in only one month. How do we do this? How do we actually pull it off? Well, in one month with SEO, you can't even come close to building a new site and monetizing it and getting it ranked to double your company's revenue. But you can take the existing visitors and optimize them and make sure that they're converting more and making more money from you. That's what we did. That's how we pulled it off. It was awesome. Another reason I like CRO is it's freaking fun. You really have to think about what people want and they need and how they operate at the same time. You have to think about customer psychology. You have to put yourself in the shoes of a visitor and really learn how to empathize with them and think what are these guys looking for? It's quite an art and when it works, it's really, really good feeling. It's fun to figure out. So what you're going to learn in this module, first is how to get people to stay on your page and not bounce. And then how to get them to read all the way to your CTAs. After that, you'll learn how to optimize both your content and your CTAs. Then lastly, how to actually negotiate higher payouts from your affiliate network.


## 10.Click-through-rate Optimization - The Affiliate Lab.ts

All right. Hello. Hello. If anyone's there, I think it's just me and David at this point. David can't hear me. Yeah. Yeah. I can. Okay. Now people are starting to come in. We've got Jason and Anthony Reisdorf. What I'm going to try to do right now, David, is make you presenter. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So it looks like I've made you presenter. And then from there, you would just show screen. There's a big fat button. And just close all your porn first and then we'll be good to go. I think I think I'm fine. Can you see my screen? Yep. Yep. Yep. So I'll keep that there. And at this point in time, it's a couple of minutes before we even start the webinar. So let's just chill for a little bit, let people come in, say hi. Bobby in the house. Bobby's got awesome attendance. And Matt Beach probably owes you a beer. I think Matt is one of the ones who requested this topic more than anyone else. Hey, Matt. What's up, Bobby? Nice to see you. And Matt Beach just disconnected. He'll come back. Hi, Jason. Hi, Jill. Hi, Anthony. Hey, Bobby. Excuse me for a little bit. I'm pretty sick. If I sound nasally, it's because I am nasally. Yeah, Bobby says thanks, David, for doing this, even though you didn't want to. Is I think it was partially my peer pressure. Well, it's great that everybody sort of pitches in into everything. I mean, everybody shares their stuff, no? Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And it would be a egotistical fallacy for me to even try to attempt that I hold the wealth of knowledge of affiliate SEO. You guys are better than me at something. So it's really helpful if you share your knowledge so we can all get better together. I wouldn't say I'm the expert in this, obviously, but I have, let's say, read quite a little bit about CTR in general. Actually, what I do in most topics is when I'm sort of not too sure about something, I try to dig into it as much as possible just to gain as much insight from obviously most of the experts out there. Right, exactly, which is the smart thing to do. Sure. Okay, so we got, it's the time to start. I think what we should do is, let me just give a few notes on different changes going on with the lab and stuff like that. And in addition to that, let's start off with introducing you and talk about where you're from, explain this accent, and then we'll jump into the presentation. So just real quick, some updates to the lab. Now, right now, this is a big, huge pivotal webinar that's really going to change a lot of things for a lot of affiliates and people, lead gen, client SEO and stuff like that. But right now, the attendance is a bit low. Why is it a bit low? Because we do replays and I understand it. But when we get people on the webinars, that helps generate more questions. And then the webinar itself can be better. Now, we're implementing a couple new things at the lab. One is an attendance leaderboard. So at, every quarter, we're going to tally up and we're going to see how many people attend each webinar. And at the end of the quarter, the winners are going to receive up to six guest posts from authority builders. On the top of that, we're going to get, Mark's going to pitch in some stuff from Web 20 Ranker. We'll get a whole bunch of goodies. So like, we'll have this leaderboard every single time there's a new webinar, then we'll just post the results for the new leaderboard. And then you'll see where you are and you can kick each other's butts and win free guest posts. In addition to that, we have so much more stuff coming on, like in addition to the normal AMA webinars. So we're, we needed to organize that. We need to present that in a way too. So you guys, like, can make sense of it all in planning your days and stuff like that. So we're going to put up a calendar starting next month. That calendar is going to have a whole bunch of things like all of these schedules from the AMA webinars, but also like when we're going to update our little courses. I shouldn't say little, mine's like 12 hours, but when we're going to update our courses. And also different stuff like different guest webinars we're going to have on. So for example, I'm going to be hosting Holly Starks, who's going to be not, not doing an AMA, but she's going to be doing an actual training on YouTube SEO. So stuff like that will be displayed in the calendar. And we got a couple other new tricks and stuff and secrets that I don't want to quite reveal now, but just giving you a sneak that July is going to be freaking awesome. Okay, now let's pass it over to you, David. Tell us a little about you, like first off, where are you from? How long you've been doing SEO and what type of SEO that you do? Hey guys, so this is David Altarad. I'm actually living in Malta, born and bred here. Malta is obviously a very small island in the middle of the Mediterranean Sea, which is basically the very south, southern end of Europe. We do speak our own language, Maltese, which is a mixture of a blend of languages of the people who have actually dominated the island. So it starts, it's roots are in, in Arabic, but over the years we've been conquered by many, many people, including the Italians, the French, the English. So our language has sort of picked up influences out of all these people. And we do have a very particular accent when we come to speaking English, essentially. So if you saw, if I sound particular, which I know I do, that's the influence, the influence is coming from, from the Maltese language, essentially. I've been doing SEO, I would say for the last probably 10 to 15 years. I got into SEO mostly by running my own website about JUMLA initially. I started by doing content, trying to learn JUMLA. So as I was learning JUMLA as a web designer, I was actually trying to pick up as much stuff as possible. And to do that, what I was doing is I was actually writing content myself. At the same time, I was actually writing JUMLA extensions and trying to do what other people were doing. And at that time, people were actually hiding links in their plugins using display code in them. So essentially, what I got into SEO, doing black hat SEO, without actually knowing that I was doing black hat SEO. Over the years, as sort of the SEO sort of becoming a big thing, I actually started learning, trying to do stuff better, switching mostly to doing, let's say, more content based SEO. So trying to make sure that the content was actually ranking due to it being great content by itself. And then started to actually invest by learning from people like Brian Dean. And eventually, I got into, let's say, my diggity circle and obviously eventually getting into the lab. I will say in the last four years, this is where I made most of my advance in SEO, where I learned how to do the ropes, how to do outreach, how to get real great backlinks, how to do the anchor ratios and all that stuff. And essentially, I was saying the last four years was when I really took, let's say, SEO to another level and started making a real difference. And what would you say were the biggest pivotal things for you in going from a smaller level to a bigger level? What was the biggest factors that helped you jump up and at the level? Funnily enough, I never actually did outreach before taking Brian Dean's course. So when I started, I used to get a lot of outreach emails via my website, but I had never figured out that there was a process to actually getting links. When I got into Brian Dean's course, I realized that links are such an essential level of getting rankings and realizing that you could get so much links through getting outreach, I would say that was the pivotal moment where you could not just realize sort of on acquiring links, I don't know, through content, but that you could actually go out there and get links. Being proactive about link building. Yep. Yep. Okay. Cool. Anything else you want to share with us? So you're doing affiliate SEO right now, right? I do mostly affiliate SEO. In fact, I've been trying to grow my site with affiliate SEO for most of the time around when I've been doing this, but it was sort of mostly as a hobby. So I wasn't doing much focus on it. I was monetizing, getting different ways, usually actually by selling links on the sites, funnily enough. Given the footer links which I had over the years, using the extensions, the site actually had quite a lot of authority. So I was sort of getting links on the side, which were actually making the site very, very strong. So it had good authority, and I was able to monetize that authority by actually selling links out. So I wasn't monetizing, but not, let's say, as legitimate as I could get. I got into quite a few penalties, unnatural link penalties, unnatural link penalties, penguin hit me really hard, penguin 4, I believe, in November of about 2016. And that's when I said, look, I need to clean my stuff up and start doing it right. I would say another pivotal moment of mine was actually getting into the lab. Up to then, I was doing very, very little after it was the moment when I started real monetizing the affiliate part without actually selling, let's say, the links directly. I think in the last six months, I've probably 10xed or a bit more my revenue out of the site. At this point, I'm working to make it a five figure a month, five figure per month. I'm at four figures, so 1000 plus, 1500 plus, coming close to 2000. And I'm trying to take my own site, at least two, let's say, 5 to 10k. I also have another site, which is a software as a service based site. And I'm doing SEO for that, mostly for lead generation and monetizing the traffic as well. Both sites are doing about 1000 to 1200 visitors a day. Okay, got it. You're a salesman. And I think one of the main reasons that we're even here today is we had me and you had a conversation and you were saying that one of the biggest things that jumped you up for making dollars, tens of dollars on your site, was focusing on click through rate and CRO and optimization and just making sure the traffic that looks at your stuff does what you want them to do, which is click to different things. So we're focused today on click through rate. You want to talk a little bit before we jump into it on what that's done for you? So when I was doing the site, not my own site, the site for the service which I'm working with, which is essentially BWIS, which is a project management for web designers, we had a number of very, very good content, which was ranking, let's say, three plus end rankings for keywords, which were targeting. And they were sort of stuck against an authority site, which had been around for quite a long time. And we were trying really trying to figure things out what we could do to actually jump, take it from three to two, one, and hopefully even feature snippets. I think around about, let's say, a year or maybe a bit, probably two years ago, I started getting into the CTR things, again with Brian Dean mostly. And I started experimenting with doing a little bit of playing around with the actual CTR just to make, just to attract attention as much as possible to the headlines. And these few pages, which had been stuck for a while, suddenly jumped from three to one very, very quickly. Literally, in let's say, in a few weeks, we probably doubled the traffic on all of these pages, and we took these pages. And it was just a few tweaks, which these small changes in the actual title suddenly took our rankings sky high at that point. Great. And it makes a lot of sense. But we'll get into this. I think it's a good part to, I think everyone's pretty excited to see what you want to say. So let's go ahead and get into the presentation. But just to reiterate and say in my own words, why David had that effect is basically because at the top of the SERPs, that's where CTR comes into play big time. CTR definitely always comes into play. But on page two, on page three, no one's getting clicks. So it's just the volume on it doesn't really matter. If you started getting a bunch of clicks on page three, they would just think you're manipulating your clicks. But at the top of page one, this is where clicks really happen. And at the end of the day, Google is just trying to deliver what people want to see. What's the easiest way for them to figure that out? What they're clicking on. So that's why this is a very, very important webinar for you guys to pay attention to. And we're very thankful for David. David, on to you. Yeah, so exactly. I would say, so essentially why do we focus on CTR? Obviously, the number one reason is rankings, because obviously we want to improve our rankings. And as you are rightly saying, with Google, the last, let's say, few years, Google has started really using the data which they have in their own hands, so to speak, to actually take decisions based, to make rankings based on the data. So with the rank brain and with that machine learning, they're leveraging the data and the sheer amounts of data they have and the user signals which they have to actually make sure they're getting the right result every time in the top places. Now, the biggest way to actually figure that out, as you are saying, is just by figuring out where people are actually clicking. And essentially, it's the X signals which are here at this point. The biggest differentiator when it comes to clicks, when it comes to user signals on the first page, are essentially the click-through rates. So which result people are actually clicking on, combined with how much time they're actually spending. So that's the dwell time. And whether they're actually then bouncing back and going to another search. So if you are actually getting clicks to your result and from that result, people are actually spending a lot of time and not bouncing to another site, that means that the actual user has really gotten what they wanted to get. So Google actually measures how users interact with search results and obviously other positions accordingly. The focus of Google is obviously they want to get the good result, the right result every time. So if somebody is actually clicking on the result, staying there and not bouncing back, that's they've achieved 100% user intent on that search. And this is where, this is always sort of your mindset, the mindset which you need to focus on when you're actually doing SEO. So always figure out the user intent and how you're actually going to satisfy that user intent 100%. The click-through rate is one way to actually jump start your rankings. But definitely your starting point has to be user intent. The CTR, then the bounce rate and the dwell time is actually then used to measure whether you should be in the correct position. So essentially what Google is doing is if you actually beat the expecting, so you know that in the 10 positions as you were rightly saying, is the very top position gets, I don't know, it's about I think 40% or 30% of clicks, then the second would be something like 15, the third is about 10, and then the rest is shared between the list from 7 to 10. Now if you are beating, you're expecting organic click-through rate for a given position, many, many times you will actually start going up. If you start going up, if you fall below the expecting organic search click-through rate, then you'll actually start going down until your content sort of finds its rightful place. The goal obviously is that as with content and links, when we focus on the click-through rate, we want to beat our competitors when it comes to the actual click-through rate. And how do we do that? Essentially we need to figure out a way to create a title which is so more compelling than the titles of our competitors essentially. So in the same way that when you're actually writing content, you make sure that your content is better than the content of your competitors using skyscraper, using whatever else you're actually doing, more videos, I don't know, tables, whatever, anything which you do to make your content better. When it comes to click-through rate, we also need to figure out how to make things better. When we go to, when we come to links, we always try to figure out ways to do things better. So even in the lab, obviously we see that we do the correct anchor ratios, we do more links, we do better content with more volume where necessary. Now when it comes to the actual title and the click-through rate, once again, we need to be better than the actual competitors or actual ranking against us. The way to actually interject real quick, if you have questions, go ahead and write them in the question box and I'll find a good time to interrupt David and ask him. So go ahead David, there's no questions at this point in time. Okay, great. Actually, sorry, sorry. Matt says, is bounce rate the right metric? Does Google really want the person going deeper into the site? The real question is not whether they actually go into your site, it's whether they actually bounce back to the search results. So if somebody, if somebody searches for something, they go to your site and bounce back and don't do anything else, that's fine. But if people go to your site, then go back to the search results and go to another result, that means they haven't found what they were actually looking for, which means obviously that your content wasn't good enough for them to actually satisfy the user intent. So that is the key, it's not whether they actually dig deeper into your site, it's whether they actually click on other results. So that's the bounce rate which we're talking about, not the bounce rate in Google Analytics. Exactly. And just to add upon that, I get a lot of questions related to what if someone comes to my site, my site is about best ping pong tables, and then right away they click an Amazon affiliate link, so they've left my site, is that a bounce? No, that's not a bounce, it's only when they go back to the Google search result when it's considered a bad thing. Another question is, so Mathedes, are you a question about visiting another page? How can you know if people are pogoing to another site? You can't know that, you could never know that. What you'll notice is that you start yo-yoing going up and down in the rankings. So if you discover when you actually start dropping down, if you go up the rankings and then start going down, that means that people are not actually finding what they want 100% on your site, or it's not as good as your competitors essentially. So the thing with Google is they have so much data that they can actually find the trends between what people are doing on your site and what people are doing. So they will do sort of A-B testing on a massive scale. So if in general the trend looks like that people are going back to the searches more on a specific site, then that one will drop and the ones which are actually better will go up higher essentially. So if we see this specific slide, before it was let's say links, keywords, social metrics, which were the actual ranking signals today. CTR obviously takes you up the rankings, but the second one is actually very, very important. This task completion. Task completion from a user intent search perspective. If I'm looking for, I don't know, best laptops and I find an affiliate site and then from there I go to Amazon and I buy my laptop, that's fine. But if I search for best laptops and I find, I don't know, whatever, I find the searches are not good and I have to go back. That means I haven't actually satisfied my search intent. And obviously the site where there's a balance back to the searches is the one which is going to drop. That's a good way to put it. I think we're good to continue on. There's some more questions queued up, but I think there's a better place to ask them. So, established tricks. I wouldn't say there are going to be a few tricks which we are going to mention, but fundamentally what you need to do is go through the search results and come up with a similar but more awesome title than your competitors. So essentially what you need to do, go to your keywords, go to the SERPs for your keyword, analyze them and then make sure that you come up with something which is more compelling, better than your competitors. And essentially fundamental, always fundamental is you focus on the search user intent. So you always have to look at things, not just from the perspective of what's actually on the SERPs right now, but what is the user trying to achieve, what is the problem they want to solve, what do they really want when they're actually searching for your keywords. This is, I would say at this point in SEO, this is absolutely fundamental and the one thing which you need to focus on, whether it's in terms of click-through rate or whether it's in terms of content, always, always, always make sure that you have user search intent in mind. And with that user search intent, then you can use tricks just to make sure that you get into their psyche. And with that, obviously, you're going to come up with the headline, with the title, which is going to be better than that of your competitors. Let's start going through the actual, let's say, to the number of established tricks. So the first established trick is add a number to your title. So there's a huge difference when you actually add a number to your specific title. It attracts attention. And in fact, odd numbers are actually better, 20% better than even numbers, funnily enough. So use numbers like 5, 7, 9, 17, this works especially with listicles. So I don't know, 7, round up of 7, whatever, or round up of 9, whatever. Don't use 2 because obviously it's very, very small. 6, 13 is obviously an unlucky number, 22. There's sort of, if you take a look at most results out there, they sort of always fall into number one, always in odd numbers. And they're always sort of around specific, let's say, 5, 7, 9, 17, 21, 25, 30-ish, 50-ish, then maybe 101. The 101 starts getting a little bit too much when it comes to listicles. Even when you're actually not doing listicle articles, you can use stuff like 23% off in your headline, or I don't know, 517 have a client served. It's always having that number in there, is always going to increase the click-through rates. In terms of actually looking at the SERPs, I like to one-up my competitors, or if it's, I don't know, if it's 23 items of that, I would go for 30 plus, or I don't know, sometimes I go for double, so with 20-ish I go to 40 plus. I always try to outrank the competitors by doing more than the ones in the beginning, if it makes sense. Most times it does make sense. Another number trick is obviously the AR plus the month. This is something which is relevant to always 100%. It makes sense because especially if you're doing reviews and recent reviews, using the AR and the month makes it very clear that you're on the ball, you're always using the latest content, and obviously people want to read the latest updated content essentially. So if you had to take a look at stuff from an SEO focus title, which is focusing on a website loading speed, this is obviously using the keywords and using stuff like how to. This, the second one, the numbered version is 27 hacks to make your website load like lightning. There aren't all of the keywords which you are focusing on, website loading speed, but definitely there is user intent and obviously there is sort of, if you want to make your website load like lightning and there's 27 hacks, which is obviously the number, that is much more likely to compel you to click than the one which is sort of blend and how to easily improve your website loading speed. And just to add to, could you go back to the last slide? So when your website is moving up the rankings and you start off on page 5 and you slowly go for 4, 3, 2, then the bottom of page 1, keep your title SEO focused. As David mentioned before, only it's like the top four positions get any decent amount of clicks. So all this stuff doesn't really matter when you're in the bottom position. I believe the last study I looked at, it was like top four get a bunch of clicks, so so. And then once it's between five, the fifth position and like the 50th position, they all get the same amount of clicks, which is like 0.5 to 1% of the clicks. So once you're outside the top four, it's like virtually nothing. So this SEO focused title example here, how to easily improve your website loading speed is pretty good. Like I would definitely make some changes and take website loading speed and push them to the front. Maybe website loading speed, how to easily improve your site, something like that. So it's good. That's the one that you'd want to use. But once you start crawling up to the higher positions, this numbered version is going to be much, much better. Question. So you talked about needing to analyze the competition and see what people are doing so you can do better at them. How many titles would you take a look at? Like when is enough enough? I would say definitely the top five. So always above the fold. Because your eyes are going to scan definitely above the 40-year-old, you're going to scan them. So definitely, definitely the top five, maybe, maybe, maybe the top 10, but first five for sure 100%. Yeah, I agree. And also Matt has a question. Would this also mean that the title tag is going to match your H1 or is they want to see those hacks on the page? Okay, so just a clarification, I can answer this one. We're only talking about SEO title tag here, which is for CTR, but similar type strategies can be used with the headline, which is the H1. We always do recommend in the lab to make your SEO title tag near H1 different. But this is all good stuff here. Like definitely, I would just say be a little bit more conservative when changing your H1, because your H1 is very, very powerful for defining what your page is about. And if you lose too many keywords from that, you could see a decrease in ranking. So yes, both of these places are good for optimization for both getting the click to the page and keeping the person on the page, just be a little bit more conservative with the H1. Okay, back to you, David. I don't like missing around a lot with the H1. And H1 is also good for going viral. So I think, I'm not sure actually which one gets used when you actually share stuff, whether it's the actual H1 or the, I think it might differ based on the CMS which you are using. But this is definitely for the actual title, not the H1. Establish tricks, more established tricks. Use brackets, it's deer and caps. So stuff like case study or how to or updated 2018 or this is one which I really like to use most. So you put in, I don't know, the most awesome laptops out there at this point, something like that. But the most, what you do is with the brackets and the caps, you put something such that your cert actually stands out compared to the competition. So just by doing this, the most with the caps and the brackets, it's sort of your eye when you're actually scanning the top five for some of that. Now, if you do all of the tricks together, create a compelling headline and then put in this most, it actually attracts attention. You is obviously something which the caps on the, which one is right for you. It's not which one is right for everybody. It's which one is right specifically for you when you're actually, this works very, very much, very, very well when you're doing your versus. So product X versus product Y, which one is right for you or which one is most worth it for you or which one is, solves this problem for you. Obviously, if you put something in like updated 2018, it helps with it signals that the content has been updated recently. And obviously, actually quite a lot of people search for keyword plus year. So I don't know, best laptops 2018, best iPhones 2018. Quite a lot of people actually do that, searching for obviously latest, the latest, whatever you're pitching. So actually having that in the title is going to help you rank specifically for that keyword with the RnB. I actually like to do this. This is one trick which I haven't actually spoken about or pitched here. If you're actually anticipating something to be released in a few months time or even a few days time, what I like to do is I like to prepare content, leave it age for a few weeks. And then once let's say something is released, you're going to shoot up the rankings specifically for that query because your content is actually older than the ones which are out there at that point. This is something which works for example, when you're going for a year, for a specific year, you actually post the article in advance of that year actually starting and then once people start searching for that year, your content has sort of aged and possibly also gotten links. I also do this quite a lot when there's software launches. So let's say I do a lot of affiliate SEO for software based products and usually you get people talking about a launch quite a few months in advance. People do things like countdowns, I don't know 100 day countdowns. What I do is I actually let's say if version 3.0 is going to be released, what I do is I take my current content which might not be actually ranking very, very well at that point. I tweak it for the new version which is coming up and I leave it to age. As soon as it comes out, obviously I'm going to update it with the relevant content with the new stuff out there. But the fact that it's been around for a while more than anything which has been out there, you're going to shoot up the rankings very, very quickly. I've had experience with this too. People call it various things like launch jacking or you just have a property in place for when something's about to launch. This can be applied to a lot of different things. For example, like let's say for example, you're doing lead generation for I don't know housing developments. You can create a landing page for a particular housing development before it even launches and then just because you're on the page months before everyone else, you're going to be number one for sure. So definitely the brackets and the specific date make a significant difference. Yeah, quick question. So Bobby asked, with keyword and year type stuff, what do you do when the year passes over? Now you're in 2019. Do you create a new post or just update the year? You just update the year. We'll be showing you a specific trick which you can use with the host so you don't have to keep on updating the year. You just put in this variable which actually updates with the year and the actual amount of you want to. Yeah, that's awesome. Another trick, power words and emotions. Both power words and emotions are obviously very, very strong because people, they are irresistible. You're just pushing people's buttons essentially. Now there are the good emotions and the bad emotions. The more the negative emotion, the more you're going to actually attract clicks. So use power words, use emotionally charged terms and most especially use negative emotions. So use fear, use, I don't know. This, you see this quite a lot in clickbait titles, the Buzzfeed type of word because I don't know, on Facebook and social media, you see emotions being used a lot. I don't know. Even in the World Cup, I saw something like Messi is in a living nightmare and you can't look away. That kind of clickbait is bound to attract people's attention. So if you can actually use clickbait or clickbaity titles with powerful emotions, do that. So when I actually was speaking to somebody, I can't remember, who it was. It might have been Matt or Bobby. They actually were doing a failure to SEO for something which resolved somebody's pain. So and that's a very specific type of pain. And what we did, what I suggested that he does in terms of the optimization of the title is focus specifically on the problem that these people are facing when they're searching for your solution, so to speak. So let's say they're suffering from gout or they're suffering from, I don't know, I don't want to mention it just because it's actually not, it's it's, there's a specific type of pain. What I said, no more of this type of pain in the title. So you're actually pushing people's emotional buttons because wow, if this specific product can actually solve this for me, then obviously I want to see this result. So if you are able to put in these kinds of awesome, essential, ultimate guide, the most amazing, whatever, boost your, I don't know, fat burning power, whatever, boost your speed, stunning, best, top, fantastic, improve, simple, there's a lot of boosts, I can see. Actionable is quite a lot. So if you're doing a guide, actionable tips is very, is great. Quick step by step. The fact that this quick, obviously people like things which where they can achieve results quickly, step by step, if you're actually targeting beginners, step by step makes a very significant difference because obviously they need hand holding today so that obviously can take action quickly right now fast. There's a very good resource which you can use here, which is smartblogger.com slash power words. This, besides using these in your titles, you can actually use quite a lot of these in your content to keep people always compelled. I would definitely suggest that you take a look at this both in terms of your titles and actually in terms of your content. Impress successful relief easy in terms of positive emotions and sucks, terrify, annoy, lose. All of that stuff is stuff which you need to use and push people's buttons. So instead of five tips for weight loss, you use things like five stupidly easy tips for burning fat, which is obviously the problem which you have and then you have stupidly easy tips because obviously burning fat is usually not very easy for most people. If anyone has any skepticism about like, well, you know, I'm not that good at writing and this sounds like I'm gonna have to learn copywriting skills. Like I'll just say right at the bat that yes it is a skill that you use but it's really really quick to get good at it. Right? Like I don't think twice when I'm writing headlines anymore or writing copy it's just like that's when I'm I just put myself in a different mode and that's how it flows out. Dino is really really good at this stuff so like Dino speaking at Chang Mai SEO conference and when I told him and asked him, you know, like, will you will you speak? He said right away on the spot like for sure, I'll definitely do it. And I was like, do you think I could get a title on abstract by, you know, three months from now? And he's like, how about 15 minutes? So like that just flows from people. Once you get this skill working and you get a little bit of practice at it, it's really really quick. And it's definitely something which you need to spend a lot of time on. One thing is for sure that besides their actual content, the headline of the content is going to make a really, really, really impact not just on the click-through rate but on people, on people how actually consume your specific article. So if you are able to come up with a title which is so compelling for the content you're actually writing, then you're sort of 8% there in terms of success of that content. And if you're interested in exploring this more like you really want to dive in, I can recommend a book called Web Copy That Sells by Maria Veloso. Really good. It's a really good one. Probably, it's a decent read, probably took me about a week and a half, two weeks, but that one's awesome. That was awesome. You could probably start a career in copywriting after reading that one. So this actually, you mentioned Dino's. Obviously people who are actually doing GADs are very, very good at getting good, getting good copy out there. So for diverse lawyers, who is your husband with, is sleeping with her right now, get revenge and a smile on your face, this obviously, this kind of bad copy is going to get people to click because obviously there's so much emotion and so much revenge and so many villains and heroes in there. The other one is actually focusing very much on fear. So only 15% of women live with late detection, get screened. They're pushing the fear button there. This is obviously an example which is not very very typical for SEO, but in general, you can learn a lot by seeing the paid ads. People are actually paying for ads are usually quite good at making sure that they get very, very good results because obviously other ways you're going to go bust. You can apply some of that to SEO. Even like, you don't need to scare people to the degree that they're going to die of not detecting breast cancer enough, but I'll do stuff in meta descriptions where I have a little bit more room to write stuff in and say stuff like, okay, best lawnmowers of 2018. In the description, I'll do something like, there's 45 different lawnmowers released this year. Only two of them are worth your money. Do you know which ones those are? That just makes people feel like they're about to lose money if unless they read that article. In fact, this is actually what we're focusing on here. So get person. Just make sure that the first thing I'm saying is figure out the user intent and go after that. What is the problem you're trying to get to solve and get the solution in the actual title? So this was the example which I showed you before. Nine plus best, whatever, best but cheap. So if the stuff is actually expensive, nine plus best but cheap product. This, the second one is the one which was actually stuck. So we had a questionnaire for doing something. What we did to actually change was at this part, a complete, the complete was there, but the to impress your clients, since this was a solution for making sure that your clients are very well served by adding to to impress your clients is what really pushed the buttons. This was also about getting people to download contracts. This was a lead magnet with our essential list. So what we added is cover your ass because with a contract, you're making sure that your ass is covered. So by adding this into the title, you can see that it's not SEO focused. In fact, our keywords were at the end of this, but the click through rate shot through the group by having this cover your ass. Product X versus product Y, which one is most worth it and which one is right for you. I have one right now, which is sort of targeting different personas. So I say something like product X versus product Y, one is right for you, one isn't. And it's sort of, you know, it makes people curious, am I actually getting the right product or am I getting one, which is not good for me. In terms of the template, there's a sort of format which you always need to go for, which is the format list, facts, tips, strategies, infographic, the emotional hook, amazing, insane, shocking, powerful, unreal, the content type, whether it's images, quotes, pictures, facts, strategies, et cetera, and the nearest object about cats, about weight loss, about skin, about health, about marketing. And if you use this template, most likely you're going to be able to figure out quite a good title in general. So going for a few examples, I try to go out for the most, for stuff which is very, very competitive. So there's stuff like WordPress hosting, there's best WordPress hosting 2018, top 10 comparison and reviews. You're seeing most of the tricks we've mentioned, the power word, the actual keyword, the number, then the user intent, you compare and you're going to review. Even for the best iPhone, we can see which iPhone is best 2018, which one is right for you, how to pick the perfect iPhone always for you. This one is a great one. What is the best iPhone, spoiler? It's not what you think it is. It's not the iPhone 8. So there's numbers. All of these titles, which are obviously ranking very, very high, are using a lot of these tricks. If you're actually competing against them, you're in for quite a tough competition in general. But if you take a look at these, you can actually learn quite a lot. Garcinia comboja, you can see that is it safe for weight loss. So you're asking the question, pitching it. You're actually making sure you identify what people are searching for and make sure that you're figuring out what people want to see. Best laptops again, numbers, lab tested reviews. So you can actually know that these are genuine reviews. Best laptops of 2018, laptops from books and Macs. So you're always trying to figure out what people actually want to see and then you put it into the title. Shall we try a few keywords? Matt? Yeah, yeah, let's do it. You guys want to put in like some keywords into the question box and we'll see what we can do to dress them up. Go ahead and type it in if you got some ideas. How about one, I got one for you. How about yoga for weight loss? Say that again. Yoga for weight loss. Yoga? Yoga? Like? Oh, yoga. So let's try. Yoga for weight loss. So this one is a great one. 13. So we definitely will go for more than 13. We'd go nearer to 25 plus. Oh, what I like to do, what I didn't mention is the plus. So 21 plus or 25 plus. By putting in a plus, you're always actually attracting more attention. So 25, 25 easy, not just simple. So 25 easy yoga poses for losing weight loss fast. 20. I don't know. 25 plus yoga poses. I think simple, easy is good in there. Like we'll attract the beginner crowd. Losing like the second one Thrive Strive just really does the job. Like the second one Thrive Strive just really does dominate over the yoga journal one losing weight fast. So it's not like slow weight loss. I think even putting in the 25 plus or. I would also add in in your home. Right. Like a lot of people that want to lose weight, don't want to go to a yoga class where they're doing yoga a bunch of whole or amongst a whole bunch of skinny girls in yoga pants, making them feel bad about themselves. So maybe they want to do it in their home. So you could do 25 simple or easy yoga yoga poses for home that for losing weight fast, something like that. Life insurance for seniors. I don't think these are the great ones which are actually for over 50s and 60s. But you can see so this one is a great one. Five secret to an expensive life insurance for seniors. So this is a great one. I would go for nine. Nine. Best or greatest greatest tips for. Whatever 60 plus for. I don't know for life insurance is definitely and for seniors is something which you need to make sure that is relatively cheap ish. So which won't burn your pocket, which won't. You always have to make sure that you're getting something which is a good deal. So I think I would focus definitely on the money on the on the value. I would definitely focus on the on the value. More stuff. Yeah, they definitely need a power word like affordable or yes, that's a great one. Something like that in there because there's I don't care if like who's looking for life insurance. You know no one wants to get ripped off, especially in this type of niche where that's usually what you do is get ripped off. How to get rid of stress. That's a great one. I can say right off the bat, you need to paint a picture of what life would be like without stress. Yes, definitely, definitely you need to put yourself in the mode of actually get stress free now with these x easy tricks or these x x easy tips. Get I don't know. But definitely what Matt is saying that you need to focus on what happens when you're stress free. So how about get rid of stress 14 tips to live worry free. Yes, the worry free is great. The worry free is the one which is actually pushing the emotional buttons and you actually mentioned also how to get rid of depression, which is obviously if you if you if you combine depression and anxiety, for example, that would be something so how to get rid of depression and or how to eliminate depression and say goodbye to your to your anxiety or something like that. We got one more. Let's do Rose quartz. I want this one's challenging because we don't know what that is. It's a gemstone. So this one's challenging in my opinion because we don't know what people are searching for. Are they are they trying to figure out what a rose quartz is like David? Or are they trying to figure out like what's the best rose quartz or what's the best rose quartz for like spiritual reasons. But let's just take a look and see if we can do something with it. The great thing is that there doesn't seem to be a lot of good challenges in terms of the actual title to show out there. So I think you should be able to figure one out. Once you actually figure out the user intent, you should be able to. So there's it looks like there are healing properties associated with it and meanings and uses. So well, I'm sort of drawing a blank here about like rose quartz. The the learn all the facts where the word all like capital A, capital L, capital L, learn all the facts about this mysterious crystal. Yes, or the amazing healing properties of rose quartz. All the facts months like capitalize all if you could bold it that would be even better, but you can't bold insert. But that just implies that like every other article on page one isn't telling you all of it. But this one is use the caps where you can't where you want to use bold to use the caps and the brackets. Yeah, Bobby said rose quartz and amazing healing properties and 11 ways to use it. Bobby's getting off some of this already. Yep. I mean, if you start brainstorming around around the actual around the intent, you're quite likely to actually come up with something really interesting. Yeah. Now, how do you test this out? Is that fine? Does anybody Yeah, because we're right. I think we're actually running out of time. That's okay. This will keep going. We can go over time a little bit. I think I don't know. We'll see. So how do you actually test out this stuff? This is something which, which you always want to do so or you always can do. What I usually try first thing that I try is actually to make small changes and see whether they actually have a dramatic change. So I change it once. You don't have to change this often just change it once and monitor it for a few weeks. In general, what I try to do is I go to search console, I find the average CTR in general, and then I go to all of the headlines which are performing below the average CTR on my website. That gives you an instant boost to all of those which aren't doing, to all the pages which are not doing well. So one of the exercises which I did quite a few months back is I went through all of my actual titles and I did all of these tricks on the titles. And that makes, I would say you could easily see a 10 to 20% increase in your your traffic just by putting in how to, quicks, easys, then plus most amazing, step-by-step tips. You just put in all of these tricks into all of your pages. Once you do that on everything, you might see a quick jump. But in general, if you want to test things out, what you need to do is either create a Facebook ad or a Google AdWords. Google AdWords is obviously better because you're actually mimicking the Serbs and see which ones are actually getting the most clicks. The ones which are actually going to get the most clicks on ads are the ones which are going to get the most clicks on your Serbs in general. In general, just make sure they get a significant number of impressions if you're actually doing this. So just make sure that you have enough numbers to prove your case. And make sure they're actually getting identical exposure. So you're doing sort of a V testing, just make sure you don't have any bias towards anyone in particular and always go for the outlier. In general, besides actually looking at the Serbs, just like we said before, look at ads and AdWords as much as possible because usually you're going to get people who know their stuff doing ads because obviously ads are very, very expensive. And if you don't get those right, you're going to spend a lot of money in general. So people who are actually doing ads most times are able to figure stuff out. You'll actually get a gut feeling whether one is a good ad and one which isn't. But in general, if you take a look at the ads, in general, you're going to get, you're going to learn a few tricks. The same sort of ideas also work for the description tag. Just like Matt said before, just make sure that you're including the keyword in your description because obviously it's bolded in the Serbs. You can see that the tips and the fat are actually bolded in the Serb. Use the cliffhanger. This is great. So if you're actually comparing two products, you'll be surprised by which one actually works for you, just like the example you used before. And the Power Words. Once again, the Power Words in the description are going to actually make possibly a significant difference. Even though, again, this definitely makes a difference in the CTR by having a compelling description and getting people to click that can significantly increase your CTR. In general, these are good resources which you can use for Power Words. The headline analyzer is a great, this gives you a score for your specific headline. So if we take a look at this, essentially what you can do is you can take your headline and it gives you a score, 10 best weight loss tips for beginners, and it gives you a score. And you can keep on iterating until you get the highest score possible for your specific title. You use it more from a gut feeling point of view. So sometimes these automated tools are not able to figure out the intent or you might be using words which aren't in their dictionary. So you need to take these with a pinch of salt so to speak. But in general, they actually help you a little bit. There's also a good tool which is YoRocket from Ryan Dean. This is actually a Yoast plugin, sorry, a WordPress plugin which helps you figure out whether you have a good headline or not. There's this which is also a good infographic about what you need to do in general to have a good organic SEO. So you might want to take a look at in general, Lerakim who used to own a word stream has a lot of CTR stuff out there. What I would recommend is you go for, you search for SEO CTR hacks or SEO CTR or CTR hacks or CTR whatever and you'll find quite a lot of good resources out there. We forgot to mention for some reason the Yoast trick. I might have missed it. Anyway, what you need to do is to do the Yoast trick. You just need to use percent, percent current year, percent, percent. So if it's just something like, in your WordPress you need to if you use percent, percent current year, percent percent and percent, percent current month, percent, percent those will change to the current month and to the current year. So you can actually maybe you could type that out just type it out into the Google search bar or something like that so people can see what exactly it is. So it's percent, percent current year, percent, percent and percent, percent current month, percent, percent. So if you're using Yoast and you're writing in your SEO title tag you can write something like best laptops of current month, current year and it'll come out as best laptops of June 2018 and you'll never need to update it again. Like when it becomes July it'll automatically update for you. So percent, percent title, this is going to show the title which is at the top of Yoast and then there's current month and current year. So this is June and 2018 because of current month is June and the current year is 2018. So I had to remove this. Yeah this is a game changer. Like before this I would every January 1st I'd say, J it's time to update all the dates and stuff. So we have this Yoast thing and then the today's date plugin and we never need to change anything. We always have urgency and currentness in pretty much everything that we write. And it literally is a game changer. I mean since this current year and current month has been incredible for me, literally incredible. I mean last October I was doing something like, it's since last October doing the SEO and putting in discursivity in the titers and on the actual pages. It has dramatically made a significant difference to the stuff which I'm doing. So definitely start using this ASAB. Bobby said, in your SEO title do you have the site name in that as well? I'll go ahead and answer this one. If your website is a major brand and people might have seen that before or heard about it before, then sure you can sacrifice some of this very valuable SEO real estate for it. But in general you probably aren't running a huge authority site or even locally. Like sometimes I have a lot of like local clients that ask, you know, should we keep our brand name in there? And I say, are you on the radio? Are you on commercials? If not, then people don't know who you are. So we're sacrificing that valuable SEO real estate for it. That's the rule of thumb that I use. Brian Coughlin said, is Yoast the only SEO plugin that the title trick can be used for? I use a lot of all-in-one SEO and I couldn't figure it out as of two months ago. But maybe they patched or changed it. I'm not sure. If you can figure it out, please let me know. You might actually want to drop them a question directly to the supplier, directly to the vendor. Yeah, it's basic stuff. It shouldn't be that hard. I don't want to see if you can do it automatically, do it manually. Go through it and do it manually because it makes a significant difference. Yeah. Matt Beach says, what do you do when Google cuts off your title and puts your brand at the end? I don't really know what the rhyme or reason is when they do that. But at the end of the day, we're just not in control of those kind of things. I think what usually happens in those cases is you wrote your SEO title tag too short. Possibly, yes. I think most of the stuff which Google is actually doing has been sort of A-B tested in the way which we mentioned before. So I think if you actually put in a longer title, it's less likely for them to put in also the branding or the websites title. Cool. Any more slides? No, from my end, no. All right. But there's any more questions? We've gone over time. But I think David, you've done a pretty awesome job. I'd ask everyone to give a round of applause, but you wouldn't be able to hear it. But if you appreciated what David did, go ahead and type a one in the question box. Awesome, guys. Matt is probably pretty happy. Matt was the one that requested this. We aim to please, Matt. Cool. And we'll get this replay up pretty soon. And if there's any follow-up questions that just pop into your head over time, this is what the lab's all about. It's about community and helping each other. Just post it in the Facebook group and we'll get it answered. All right. So big thanks again, David. Thank you so much. This was awesome. You're very welcome. It's been my pleasure. All right. Take care. Bye-bye. Bye, guys. Bye-bye.


## 11.Display Ads - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Alright guys, this video I'm going to be going over 100% about display ads and whether or not they're a good idea to be placing on your affiliate websites. The first question might as probably what are display ads so we're going to get into that right away. So first things first, I just want to preface in saying that most of the internet is already monetized with display ads. Listen to a podcast recently and they gave a breakdown just throwing out some figures that I don't remember the exact figures off the top of my head but most websites on the internet are actually monetized with ads rather than affiliate links. I think the outnumbering is about four to one so actually we live in a small bubble of this affiliate world whereas most of the monetized world of the internet is used with display ads. What do display ads look like? So here's New York Times and if you look at just any random article that I just picked out here we have display ads right here and display ads down here and these are basically going to be served up kind of in a random but calculated way depending on who's viewing the site. So based on your IP address, what your browsing history is, they know I like to travel. I think they think I like nice watches, I don't but they're trying to serve me up ads that I'm likely to click on. So typical ad networks that you're probably familiar with, the first one, the biggest one is AdSense. Everyone's heard of Google AdSense, it's probably the notoriously known as the easiest way to monetize a website but also it's one of the cheapest ways to monetize one. The payouts are really, really slim on AdSense and it's hardly recommended anywhere by anyone. That said, if you have enough traffic, even monetizing with AdSense will make you enough money. Now there's been a resurgence of new networks coming out like Mediavine, Ad Thrive and New War which I'm going to talk about later but basically what these guys are is basically like middlemen. So they're a broker so to speak that will be a mediary between your website and different ad networks and ad publishers and they're going to be functioning on their own algorithms to be able to serve up the right ads on your website and then hopefully they offer a better rate, a better return on placing the ads up there than AdSense. So that's the promise that these guys hope for and reputation wise throughout the industry I've heard a lot of great things about Mediavine, Ad Thrive, Ezoic, New War, all these guys so it's time to check these things out. Now here's the question, should I be running affiliate SEO where I'm linking to affiliate offers and making commissions on affiliate links or should I run ads? In my opinion if you had to choose one or the other stick with affiliate. Affiliate always pays more. You're getting at the worst, in the worst commission rate if you're running Amazon you're getting 4% on a particular category but in other categories especially digital products you can get up to 50% commissions depending on what it is. So affiliate is always going to pay more, it's always going to earn more in general. You typically have to get a lot more traffic to have a competitive ROI for ads. But the question is why not run both on these? The first argument to that is this whole concept of one page, one goal. On every single website you basically just want to have one focus on every single page which would be just deciding for that page what is the goal of that page. Is it to get them to click on this number one product that I've reviewed and gets a affiliate commission? Is it to get them to opt into my email list with these opt-ins that are in the sidebar and the main content? There's this concept behind one page one goal that's held up through the test of time that you should only focus on one thing so if we're distracting people with multiple things it might take away from your primary monetization. So this is the question, excessive ads perhaps will draw the eye away from our affiliate buttons and links. So instead of just ruminating about this let's actually test it and see how things went. So here's the test. What we did is we took one of our ranking affiliate websites and what we decided to do was install ads on 37 of its informational content pieces. So these content pieces were monetized just through email opt-ins so there's no affiliate links on there. We're not trying to sell anything. It could be an article just on what are the benefits of juicing and you don't see any links to blenders or juicers in there or any stuff like that but you would see email opt-ins to get a free download for example and get in on the email list. And then that's monetized through an automated funnel. Excuse me. If you want to learn a little bit more on how that works check out the creative monetization video on email follow-up series. Okay so the key is that informational content pieces and we're inserting the ads on these types of pages that are only monetized through email opt-ins. Now email opt-ins it's a long play. It's what's called top of the funnel meaning these people are not close to buying something. They're very far away in the seller cycle and being close to buying something. So if the ads were to perhaps damage email opt-in rates if half the people or maybe a tenth of the people signed up as opposed to before it's not like we're going to have a huge monetary hit on the website. Sure the email list wouldn't grow as fast and then down the chain we wouldn't get some conversions through that but it's not we're not going to suffer hugely here. So this would be a great test case that's low risk so to speak. So here's our criteria. We're going to look at the following things to judge whether or not this is a good idea to add these ads. Speed performance did the web pages slow down from adding the ads? This is a very highly reported questionable thing about adding ads. They're notoriously known for slowing down websites which can in turn affect rankings. Looking at rankings themselves by adding them did we perhaps trigger something with Google? Did we get demoted somehow? We're also going to take a look at traffic which is a reflection of rankings. Also looking at time on page or people bouncing from our web pages faster just because they're not enjoying them anymore because of the ads. And then of course email subscriber rate. How bad did we hurt the email opt-in rate? And then finally earnings. How much are we making from the ads from putting them on there? So just to back up a little bit and take a look at email subscriber rate. What we're doing here is because we're testing this with email subscriber rate what I'm hoping to do is hopefully get some kind of insight onto what would happen if I install these ads on my affiliate content as well. Because it's the same type of layout on the website. Either you have email opt-ins or you have affiliate links. So we're assuming there could be a similar impact on the affiliate content and hopefully we can glean something out of this low risk test. So the next question is which ad network to use? The highest recommended networks that I heard from everyone else were Detroit, Ezoic, Mediavine and Ad Thrive. But Ad Thrive we didn't have the visitors per month to be able to apply their network. I think they require 100,000 visitors per month. Both of these guys were complete fails. Why? Because they don't allow you to have control over which pages you put the links up on. I've actually heard reports that both these guys, Ezoic and Mediavine, they do have a short code that you can place on pages which can block them from putting up ads on these pages. But in the application process both of these networks denied me because I was straightforward with them and told them this is the test we're wanting to do. We're not going to install on every single page. Secondly, they are installing a site-wide piece of code. So regardless if I'm displaying the ads on them or not, I was going to hit a speed decrease on all pages whether or not the ads were up there. I was not interested in doing that kind of thing. And on top of that, Ezoic especially is notorious for slowing down websites. So that was another reason that I wasn't that bummed that I couldn't use these guys. So enter newer media. These guys are a boutique network. From talking them right off the bat, I realized they had awesome support. They came recommended from a very successful friend that I know that primarily focuses his monetization on ads. And he introduced me to one of their senior managers and obviously got great support right there. One cool thing I learned from talking with these guys is that they claim to have no impact on speed and their users never have complaints about it. I was not going to take their word at face value and I was going to test this myself, but that was promising to hear right there. And then importantly, of course, they allow me to pick and choose which pages this goes on. At the end of the day, I'm happy to install ads on every single page on my website, but I want to test this first. And so newer, if you're interested in joining these guys, which I highly recommend, just go to the resource section below and there's an invite link in there that can get in the affiliate lab members. Okay, so let's look at the placement of what a typical layout of one of my info content pages looks like before I added the ads. So you can see where we... Okay, so here's our nav bar up here and here's the article title. We have our content, like intro paragraph. And then somewhere below the fold, we'd have our email opt-in number one here, more content. This isn't just content that it could be images in here too. And then another email opt-in. And we could have between two to three inline email opt-ins before we hit the bottom just depending on the length of the article. General rule of thumb that we'd like to do is just know more than one email opt-in visible on any screen length. And then in the sidebar typically looks like this, we have something like recommended articles. So here's article one, two, three, four, whatever. And at the bottom of the sidebar, the last widgets is the email opt-in, another just sidebar one. Okay, so now let's look at after we added the ads. So this is based on the best practices that we got from our newer manager on how to install the ads. We actually recommended displaying the first banner up here above the title. Now this kind of weirded me out a bit. I thought it was just kind of strange. He said, not only does it not seem to piss people off, but it does seem to set the tone of there being more ads later and there being the ability for them to click on them more easily. It just took his word for it and just did it like this anyways. So this is how it looks. We put this one at the top. So we have content here, we have our email opt-in, then it started alternating till I hit the bottom. And in general, in the content itself, we would have three display ads. So the one here, one here, and then one towards the bottom whenever that is. And then email opt-ins I can have as many as I want, just the same rules before, no more than one visible in a single page. And then for the sidebar, display ads at the top, and then our typical sidebar stuff, and then display ads at the bottom. Okay, so now let's jump over to results. Let's see what happened. In terms of website speed, we basically ran Pingdom and we ran it from two different locations. So one in San Francisco and one in WDC had no idea what that is. But before installing the ads in San Francisco, we were 1.66 second load time. And after 1.07, so it actually improved, that could just be a random error. Who knows what it could be. We tested this multiple times. So this is also the average between 37 pages. So this isn't just like a one-time single test where we're just like, okay, it's faster. There was a lot of averages going on. And that's what we got. WDC went from 1.34 seconds and to 1.30 seconds. So there was actually 21% non-improvement in the wrong direction. Do I care about this speed impact potentially on some pages and from some servers? No, because essentially, look at my load time. We are still under one second. It was barely impacted. This is in the zone of who freaking cares. Just get over it. What we're watching out for is me being 1.3 seconds before and me being 4.2 seconds after on both servers. So that's, in this case, I think we're fine. Next we're going to look at rankings and traffic. And fortunately, unfortunately, I don't know which way to look at it, but the data was corrupted for this. Why? Because in the middle of this test, we had an algorithm update called BERT. And BERT loved this website and ranked the crap out of it. So here's a share of voice from Accuranker and here's traffic, which doubled after the course of this algorithm update. So it's not fair to compare rankings and traffic before and after. But BERT loved this website, but at the same time, I have no complaints. So too bad. We don't get to look at rankings and traffic impact. That said, time on page. So with time on page, we were looking at an average of three minutes and 14 seconds between the 37 different pages before. After adding the ads, we checked again seven days after. It took a snapshot here. It was two minutes and 57 seconds. And then 14 days after for an impact of about negative 20% time on page. So here's my comments on this. Number one, there's probably just more visual exits on the page. So if there's more visual exits, that means there's more people exiting. There's more potential places for people to see an ad for a watch that they're interested in, they're going to click on it. So this is just a natural side effect of making money. If you have people clicking on stuff, they're going to leave. And you have more exits than people are more likely to leave. But the ranking impact, I would assign this as low, right? Time on page can be debated on as a negative ranking signal if it's if it's people are leaving the pages fast. But I think this only applies to bouncing, meaning they look at your page and then they bounce back to the SERP. That means they didn't get the answer that they're looking for. But if someone goes to your page and leaves your page right away because they found their answer and they found the link to whatever they were looking for, that's a successful search result. That's a successful web page that Google displayed to someone. So that shows that they're actually showing something good. So in this case, I mean, we're not talking about light years of difference between the time on page anyways. But I think because people aren't, this isn't bouncing, this is people clicking through to something else, I think we're fine. Now the important one, subscriber rate. So what we did was we looked at a seven day window before, before we installed the ads in a seven day window after. So then the seven days before installing the ads, we had 96 signups and the number of visitors to the site in this day, this period was 15.119, which means a signup rate of 0.62. 0.623 signups per visit per visitor. That's the signup subscriber rate, so to speak. And 128 signups, more visitors, but the signup rate was 0.816 for 29.3% improvement. This one tripped me out. Okay, so the comments here is a very interesting result, of course. But what I'm theorizing about this is that possibly in today's internet, the presence of ads is a trust signal. So like we're so used to seeing ads all the time. Facebook Times has them, all the big websites have them, that possibly showing the ads is showing that we're not an affiliate site, we're a real website, we're a news website, we're a big website because we have the ads in the first place. This is a theory, but how else can we explain that this actually improved the way people are interacting with our given page? So possibly that credibility is what's making it result in more opt-ins. I don't know. Now, the results. So let's look at earnings. So these algorithms, they take a while to ramp up, but as of today, and we've been running this for a couple of weeks, it's making $28 a day. So algorithms still ramping. These networks do say give us a bit of time to figure out what the readers of the website are looking for, let the machine learning do its job. And it's still growing, if you can't really see here, but the ramp, the trajectory is going that direction. So it could potentially increase, and we're at $28.06 per day. So $28 per day, which is $840 extra per month, which is also a $33.6,000 increase in flip price if we're looking at a 40x multiple. We don't, especially since there was zero impact on the email opt-ins. And in fact, the email opt-ins improved. So now the question is, do we install ads on the whole site? Let's just review here. So ads had no impact on email opt-ins at all. In fact, it helped improve it. Can we fairly apply the same logic to affiliate review content? Can we assume that in placing the ads there won't distract from the affiliate links themselves or the affiliate buttons? And maybe even might potentially encourage clicks on these other things just because of the presence or the look that they provide, possibly. Not sure. But unfortunately, this is very, very difficult to A-B test. It's quite impossible to do it. There's no way to do it based on time, because for example, right now we're in November, and before and after, based on one week to another, could mean a world of difference as we get closer to Black Friday or Christmas and stuff like that. So a time-based A-B test won't work. A side-by-side A-B test, very difficult to set up. It could work. I don't think it's worth testing though. I think at this point in time, you probably have enough decision-making fodder to make a decision yourself and decide what you want to do with these to install just on your informational content or do you want to install perhaps on your pages that are monetized with the 100% Amazon or perhaps do you want to go to the full gambit and install on every single page on your site?


## 2.Getting the Visitor to Stay on Your Page - The Affiliate Lab.ts

The first step in good conversion rate optimization is to get people to read your page in the first place. The problem with this is it's not easy at all and that's because we have internet attention deficit disorder. We have internet ADD. Our attention spans are negligible on the computer. We're constantly bombarded with information and we're busier than ever in this day and age. I have a question for you. Answer it completely honestly. How long does it take you to figure out a member of the opposite sex is attractive? Be honest, how long does it take? I asked this question at a conference and the answer was 1 second. Shameless. But yeah, it's probably true. About 1 second to figure this out. You have even less time to convince a web visitor that they're in the right place. I would say you have 0.9 seconds or even less to convince someone that the page that they landed on the internet is what they want to see. This is a very critical point in time and we have to be very strategic on what we display to them. Our very first goal above the fold, what we're trying to do is we need to make the visitor feel like they're in the right place. By doing this I use a strategy called the glance test. In the glance test, basically just take your landing page, load it up on the screen. You're going to look away from the screen right away. Then you're going to look at it again for 1 second and then you're going to look away again. Let's see how this works. The question you're going to ask yourself after you do this is do you feel like you found what you were searching for in that brief glance, in that brief 1 second glance, did you find what you were looking for? Let's give this a shot. Ready? Alright, on that last page did you see a huge headline talking about vitamin C serum reviews? Did you see a huge featured image with an orange in it? How about a custom logo with both of that stuff in it? Good. These are the elements that you're going to need to have on your page to convey that you're about the topic you want to be. Number one, we use featured images a lot. These are excellent for quickly saying what your site is about. Like we see here, there's a big orange on the page, like dunking in a puddle of water and water splashing about freshness. It just says straight up right here in big font vitamin C serum reviews. You can't get mistaken on what this site is about. Not only that, I mean it looks good, but I've actually tested this out on pages and where I insert in featured images on average, we increase engagement. Engagement means the user did something on my page. They scrolled down, they clicked on something, they just did something. 11.12% higher on pages with featured images. So we decided we're going to use them on all our pages now. And the great thing about it is they're super easy to create. You can create with canva.com or like me, I just use PowerPoint. I use PowerPoint to make this one. Your second goal above the fold is you want to get the visitor to trust you. An easy way to do that is just simply look good. Get a nice custom theme or build one using Thrive, that's what we do. We use Thrive. Also what you can do is get a custom logo. This is super easy. This logo actually just cost me 10 bucks on Fiverr. I'll give you the resource to the actual Fiverr gig I used to make this logo. Other ways to look good is use credibility indicators. These are like the as seen on, the as featured on. When you just get some logos and you put it, you can even put it underneath your navigation bar. It looks really good right there. These you can start to gather when you start to do outreach. You can either outreach to big blogs or you can guest post for them or you can just pay for it. By simply being on there, that's considered to be featured there. You can swap that logo on your site. Your third goal is to get the visitor interested in your content. It's a big commitment to read an entire web page. I got a busy day. I'm working many hours. I want to actually take the time to read a whole web page. Once people feel like they're in the right place and they trust you, they're going to typically read the first one or two paragraphs before they go into skin mode, if they go into skin mode. So you need to hook them in this point. This slide is all about content. In particular, the very first paragraph of content on your site, what I like to call the hook. This is extremely, extremely important piece of content on your site. It's really, really important that you get it right. There's a few different approaches that I use to make sure that when the reader is actually taking the time to reading my first paragraph, that they're going to stay on the page. The first approach I use is called the knowledge bomb. In this approach, I'm going to hit them with facts, something that they likely have never heard before. What that does is it shows that you've done your research, you know what you're talking about, and they're going to learn something if they read the content on your page. This might be like, I could use an example such as kicking off the piece of content with, did you know just this last year, 186 different vitamin C serum products have entered the market? Just by starting off with that sentence, it shows that I actually know what's going on with the market. I know that there's exactly 186 different vitamin C serum products out there that came out there this year. It shows that I'm into the niche. I'm into this marketplace. I know what I'm talking about. Then the reader can read on and learn some more about this topic. The second approach I use is called the entertainer or the show. In this tactic, I write in a clever or entertaining voice. The visitor feels that no matter what's in this piece of content, they're at least going to have fun reading it. An example of this might be, tell me if this is you. You sit down for lunch with your friend who happens to be 10 years older than you, and you feel yourself starting to get distracted by the remarkable yet annoying lack of wrinkles on her face. All right, so that's kind of like friend talking to a friend. People get comfortable with it. It relates to a sense of jealousy we feel when we see other people looking better than us, for example. Anyways, regardless of what they see in the rest of the article, they know they're at least going to have fun or they're going to connect with the author when they read it. Lastly, the third approach is fear factor. In this one, I'm going to make the reader feel like if they don't read this article, something bad might happen. Sounds very dramatic, but an example of this might be, choosing the right vitamin C serum could mean the difference between radiant glowing skin or worse, permanent damage due to vitamin C overcompensation. Whoa, that's heavy. But also it's very compelling to continue to read it, right? Of course, the right hook for your niche and your site is going to vary. One doesn't work over the others all the time, and here's some recent results on the side of mine. Okay, so we just see right here, we've got the knowledge bomb on top. This is the original version, and the variation one is the entertainer or the show. Variation two is fear factor. If we take a look here, here's conversion rate for these different hooks here. Conversion rate in the form of engagement, meaning people did something on my page later. We can see here, and this is actually quite surprising, the show, the entertainer, usually gets the least favorable results, but for the particular site that I tested it on, it did quite well. It won over the other ones 8% higher. Remember, 8% higher could mean 8% growth in your revenue. All right, go ahead and give all this stuff a shot. Try your hand at writing these out yourself, or of course you can outsource this work to the vendors I recommended in the content module. Eventually, you're going to be testing all your own content anyways, so no harm, no foul. If you want to test this out and give it a shot, you're going to test the result out as well later.


## 3.Getting the Visitor To Keep Reading Until They Get to Your CTAs - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Getting the visitor to keep reading until they get to your CTAs. As mentioned before, we have Internet ADD. After visitors read the first paragraph, most people start skimming. They start scrolling down the page and they don't really read anymore, they're just skimming through the content. You need to keep people visually interested enough to get to your CTAs and you have a chance to convert them. Here's an example of what not to do. What not to do? Have a big wall of text on your page. Check this thing out. Alright? Honestly, who would read this? Even if this content contained the secret to eating cheeseburgers every day and not gaining weight, I would skip over it. Walls of text look boring, intimidating, and they make people bounce off your page. Don't do this. What you should do instead, write in short, digestible, bite-sized paragraphs. Like one to two, maybe even three sentences long, very easy to read, and very non-intimidating. The reader likes to see this. Also, use images and video embeds to break up your walls of text. In general, just don't ever have a situation where you go from the top to the bottom of the screen without some kind of graphical break up in the middle of the text somewhere. There is a substitute for this. You can substitute images with heading or formatted content. As long as there's something interesting to look at from the top to the bottom of the screen, that's enough to keep the eye moving down to the place you want them to go. How do we mark which place we want them to go? With subheadings. Use subheadings to mark your sections. We're already doing this because of how we're doing on-site optimization. We're marking up these sections with H2s and H3s and H4s and whatnot. But the great thing about this is it accomplishes two goals. The second goal, other than making the algorithm like our on-site SEO, is the skimmers are going to stop on the section that they want. And hopefully the section they want is the actual part where we're reviewing these products. And maybe they want to see this review of the number one obagi. If they like what they see, they're going to buy it. In addition to that, in your content, use a lot of formatted content. And this is just great for the snippet. But use a lot of tables and lists. Make it look something like this. I mean, this isn't much more digestible and much more visually pleasing than a big wall of text. Now Google loves this in general. And so do the snippets so you could easily rank with something like this as well in the featured snippet. You can also use callouts. Callouts are big blocks of highlighted text. You typically take the font, maybe change the color, make it bigger, put a box around it, whatnot. The benefit of this is it's going to draw the reader's eye to important information. So very, very important information that might even help you convert. And if you want to learn how to do this, I'm going to leave the HTML code in the resources. So you can just copy that and put it in your own site. You can also use expert quotes, which is just another form of a callout. Now here's an example of an expert quote. And it's just me quoting one of my favorite SEOs of all time. But basically what an expert quote does is it keeps readers on the page just like a callout, but it also establishes credibility at the same time and makes it seem like your piece is more researched. And that could be the case. It could be true. It could be not, but it still has that perception either way. Now every niche has famous people to quote. It doesn't matter what niche you're in, so just need to hunt those down. Here's my pro tip for you. Have your writers deliver these. Just put it in your content brief saying that you want to have an expert quote, one or two per article, whatever you decide to do. Another way you can get the reader to continue on down the page is using a concept called bucket brigades. This is a very common copywriting term. Bucket brigades are literally like cliffhangers. Here's an example one here. And in the content, you know, I got this first paragraph here talking about vitamin C, blah, blah, blah, and then more on this later. What that is doing for the reader, it's kind of just saying like, hey, you probably like this paragraph that I was talking about here. I'm going to get into it more later. But first let me talk about this. And what that does is it plants a seed in the reader's mind. Just subconsciously tells them that something's going to come up later, and I might be interested in it. Let's just at least get to that point. Let's just hear what they have to say. So the idea is it promises later on that you'll have more information that you'll learn, or there'll be a resolution to an existing open problem that you're going to find out pretty soon. Examples of this might be, we'll get into this later, more on this in a bit, or as you'll soon find out, or as you'll find out later. All these are just great variations of this. The sale cycle. Okay, let's pause for a little bit. The sale cycle has to be, for me in my career, one of the most important foundational concepts that I've ever picked up. I first encountered it in a book called Solution Selling by Michael Bosworth. Definitely check it out. It's a really, really dry book. I'm warning you, but it's invaluable for how it explains what we call here the sale cycle. Now the sale cycle typically has about six stages depending on who's teaching it, but it looks something like this. Stage one is latent pain, meaning that the buyer is in a situation where they do have pain about something, but they don't even know that they had the pain. So this was best illustrated with an example. Let's imagine that someone has no hair in their head. They've gone bald. But this particular prospect, or this particular customer, doesn't even know that this is a problem. He doesn't care. He doesn't know that women might not be completely attracted to it. Who knows? So then at this stage, he's a little bit more closer to buying. He knows that this is something that disturbs him. That he wants to find a solution for it. He's almost at the point where he has a solution for it, or wants a solution for it, but right now he just doesn't like to have it. You can get him to this next stage by telling him that, hey, there are solutions for your problem. And then he becomes stage three, actively seeking a solution. This guy is going out and he's searching for things like, I don't know, ways to grow your hair. And then you can get him to the next stage by telling him that the best way to grow your hair is to use a hair follicle implant system or something like that. I'm not sure about this niche, obviously. But anyways, you can get him to the next stage, because in the next stage, he's going to be seeking the best solution, such as best hair growth product, for example. This is the kind of keyword he'd be searching for. And after that, after you sold him that number one is Rogaine, the best hairgain product, then he's getting very, very close to buying. He's now going to be searching for the best place to buy the best solution. Most commonly, he's trying to find the cheapest price for it. He is ready to buy. He's just trying to find the best place to buy it. And the last stage is obviously conversion. And you can see that depending on where someone is in the sale cycle, there's a different kind of copy that you need to pitch this person. Let me show you some examples on the next page. Let's see, for example, here. Someone is searching for the best vitamin C serum. All right? This kind of person is ready to buy. They are looking for the best one, so they can just buy that thing pretty soon. They're in a very, very late stage. An example of wrong intro content here, like the first paragraph of content on this page, and I see this all the time. Someone starts off very light. Vitamin C serum is very nice for your skin. It has many benefits, such as, such as collagen, blah, blah, blah. That's great and all, but this person, search for best vitamin C serum to get to this page, they don't need to be told about the benefits of it anymore. You've just taken them backwards in the sale cycle, and they're now further from buying. So you've done the wrong thing here. So what the best thing to do is give them a short intro, like one of the hooks that I gave you before, and then right into the top products. So short intro, maybe talk about why it's so hard to choose the right vitamin C serum, because there's so many products out in the market, and then tell them the actual products that you've listed. All right, how about this one? Obagi vitamin C serum review. So this guy's not essentially ready to buy. He just wants to learn a little bit more about this product, but he's not sold on it yet. The bad thing to do right here would give him a buy now button right away, to try to convert him. Because it's too fast, he's not ready to buy. He's not that far along in the sale cycle. You don't start pitching him right away. So instead, do what he wants. Give him the review of Obagi. The key here is just think about the keyword that your page is ranking for, or that your page is trying to rank for, the page is targeting. And first, serve them what they want to see, then lead them through the sale cycle with your copy, until they get to your CTAs. That might be on the same page, or that might be on another page. For example, people that search for benefits of vitamin C serum, I'm not going to try to convert them on that page typically. I'm probably going to try to get them just to go to one of the review pages, or even to the homepage. Now, there's another very important example. Like what do you do when you're trying to convert a very stubborn visitor? What do I mean by that? Let's use an example. DIY vitamin C serum. I found that there's a lot of search volume for this, in our keyword research. And I should go for this, because there's a ton of traffic, and traffic gets the rankings going, right? I want to rank for it, but this is not a very ready-to-buy prospect at all. This guy's very, very far back in the sale cycle. Why? Because he's trying to learn how to make it at home. He's trying not to pay for it, right? Well, anyways, we want this traffic for the rankings, but at the same time, you can also be clever about it and try to convert them. First, just give them an answer to the query they're looking for. But in this example on this page, I talk about, okay, here's how you make it, but I make it seem really, really hard to make it, to make vitamin C serum at home. And I mentioned that it's very dangerous to make these kind of products, and it can hurt your skin. So at the same time, I'm getting the traffic for this keyword. I'm pushing this person along in the sale cycle gently, and I'm getting them closer to purchase.


## 4.Setting Up Your CTAs with Conversion-friendly Content - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Setting up your CTAs with conversion-friendly content. At the point when you're pitching your CTAs like right before the buttons you need to get very very careful and very very serious about your content at this point. People are likely reading again rather than skimming because we set up the reader with a headline that they should pay attention to. For example here, where can I buy this product? Okay that is in very very big font. The people that are looking to buy this Obaji vitamin C serum this is where they're going to find that out and right here they're going to start reading copy again if they're looking to purchase so it's time to get serious about what we write here. Now what are the ingredients of a properly set up CTA when it comes to the content before it? Step one, you really really want to get them to trust your review in the first place. The reader needs to believe you when you actually say that the product is good. Now how can we do that? One approach to this is you can leverage authority opinions. You can quote an authority in the niche maybe when Dr. Oz actually had some credibility but you could credit him or you could credit the CNN report or something that had something to say about the particular product that you're talking about or the particular solution to the problem that you're addressing. You can also hit them with knowledge bombs. Remember knowledge bombs are used in hooks so it just conveys that you know what you're talking about in the niche and it gives you some credibility by doing so. So some example here so in our Obaji review section on the homepage we talked about a knowledge bomb here so propylene glycol main ingredient enhances the product's ability to soak deep in your skin and rejuvenate from the inside out. I mean that shows some knowledge here we said a scientific chemical word we must know what we're talking about. It works, it works. Second, talk about benefits and not features. I'll show the example pretty soon but features are boring right? No one really cares that this particular serum has 15% dilution from the chemical lab of so-and-so. They want to know about the benefits. How's this particular product going to help me? So when you do lay out the benefits to someone talking you format don't say like hey some people get good results from using the serum say you will get good results. In particular in this example what I said is the serum will provide a balance giving your skin a distinct glow while also reducing wrinkles and acne imperfections. Works way way better than talking about the features of the product. Third make sure you know the visitor knows that they're getting the best deal. Saving money not getting ripped off this is a huge huge motivator for a purchase. So we'll talk about this more later when we talk about the CTAs but an example of how to set this up with copy is this paragraph here and at this price which is the lowest it's ever been you'll save a ton of money just make sure to click the link below for best savings. So you're the person that's actually gone out and made sure that they're going to get the best price and this is a very very good incentive to click on that CTA right there. Number four this is just a basic copyright skill. Use an active voice. Passive words are words like might or could or one of be active in your wording. So an example of what I've done here is I said Obagi's professional professional seedline is the most popular and based on our reviews the ultimate option on our list. We're not wishy washy about this. We don't say Obagi is one of the best and we consider it to be very good. We say it's the best it's the ultimate. We are very very confirmed and very active in our wording here. Here's another cool cool trick. I got this one from Rohan Gilks at a conference. So he says this is based on a ton of research and this guy's killing it when it comes to conversion but when when the reader has taken the time and he's read what the copy says there's there comes a point in time when the reader has this feeling that they want to get a second opinion. Okay I believe what this person is saying about Obagi but why don't I check somewhere else? Why don't I check with another review or something like that? So by inserting a testimonial right near the CTA this prevents them from needing to get that second opinion because the second opinion is sitting right there. An example of what we've done here is we use a fake Facebook generator to make a fake testimonial here and toss it right under the CTA. Now finally remind the reader that there might be knockoffs. By doing so you remind them of the need that they want to get the real product. There's fakes there's knockoffs all over the place this happens all the time in any kind of industry. You need to remind the reader that this is something that they should watch out for. So you're gonna remind them that there might be knockoffs but at the same time your link is going to get them to the actual manufacturer. So that's another incentive for clicking on your link. I didn't do it in the example before enough is enough but it's just one of the other tools you can throw into your repertoire. Now big summary do these things you're gonna greatly increase your trends to that conversion. How much? I know you'd want to know. Here's some test results. Now right here the original this is a baseline piece of copy so I didn't do anything special this is just normal pretty bland piece of copy. Variation one this is using most of the elements that I just described above four out of five of them and then variation two is just using one of them. We can see here the difference in conversion rate. The baseline got 4.96 conversion on the CTA that's right beneath that piece of copy 7.08 on variation one which is using most of the techniques above and then one of the techniques gets a little bit better conversion over the baseline. We see here the improvement 42.9% on variation one that's an instant 42.9% increase in revenue by simply tweaking the copy like that. This is the power of CRO. Now one more thing here with comparison reviews it really really does a good job especially if you have a table if you use a strategy like this if you're comparing multiple products like five different products that are very very similar make each product the best at something for example one of them is the cheapest and one of them gets the quickest result and one of them is the good for this and one of them is good for that that way no matter who visits your site whatever they're looking for someone's going to find what they want even if it's the first in trying to save money they're going to find that right product because you've made one of them stand out as the cheapest right so for example in our copy for the best vitamin C certain page we had a bodgy at number one and we said this one's the best at everything it's just across the board is very very solid it's also more expensive and that's why it has a higher price but as natural the number two guy this has the best price so this targets those people that are that are looking for a deal this one mad hippie this one has the best natural ingredients so the organics the hippies you're going to want to go for this one Mario Badeski number four this is best for sensitive skin so in case this is you and you have sensitive skin this is going to appeal to these people so most people are going to find something that they're into now here's a nice trick typically the last product you want to take a dump on the last one so this one skin pseudocals I say it's good but it just doesn't compare to the others what it does here by dumping on the last one it gives you a measure of credibility right it looks very very obvious if you're trying to sell all of them but if you say that one of them is just yeah we don't really recommend this one but it's not bad it's not going to hurt you it comes off as very very credible now here's a bonus we've been talking about how to set up and make sure that people click on our links how do we make sure people don't click on certain links like authority links well here's a few tricks number one anchor a word that they already know what it is like for example here I have an authority link going out to who knows where but use the word skin as the link going out to this authority site everyone knows what skin is they don't need to click on that to learn what skin is right so there's very very low incentive to click on that you can also set up with the text preceding authority links with stuff like as you already know blah blah blah or it's common knowledge and what that does to the reader it makes them feel like I'm I'm a dummy if I need to click on this so I should already know this I'm not going to put that or I'm not going to click on that link and lastly put the link lower in the page in the scan area right people typically read more towards the top and then they get into that scan mode right so put it lower if you don't want people to click on it


## 5.Choosing the Perfect CTAs - The Affiliate Lab.ts

How to choose the perfect CTA and where to place them on your site. Now that people have stayed on your page, read your content, read your recommendation on what to buy, it's time to show a CTA. This is a very, very critical point in time in the viewer's head. It becomes some, how to say this, objections that typically pop up. What typically goes on in a visitor's head at this point? Well one of them is, like I said before, people want to make sure that they get the real thing. So they want to make sure they don't buy some knockoff or some imitation product or something secondhand. So that's something that could prevent them from clicking on the link. Sometimes they think of, hmm, I have Amazon Prime. I kind of want free shipping, so maybe I'll just not click this link and bounce off the page, search the product on Amazon and then buy it there. Well, guess what happens? You don't get the cookie and then you don't get the sale. But a big thing that comes up very, very, very often is that people just want the best price. An objection might be, I'm not sure about this link I'm about to click on, is it truly the best deal from me? And this one, this one I want the best price, this overrides the other ones by far. Your number one goal with the CTA is to let the reader know you found the lowest price. Because getting the lowest price psychologically overrides the idea of making sure I get the right product and free shipping by far. Your job is just to make sure to remind them this. How do we do this? Well again, review the last video. We do it in our copy and we can just talk about how important it is to make sure you don't get ripped off and that you've done your due diligence and found them the cheapest place to buy the specific product. But you also do this in the CTA itself. Before we jump into what makes a good CTA, let's talk about what makes a bad CTA. Here it is, the worst CTA on the planet. There it is. Now I know many people might be thinking, wow what's so bad about this one, I have a hundred of these on my site, I'll tell you why. But a few reasons why this one hurts my eyes. Number one, the reader doesn't even need to click on this thing to figure out where to get it. They have all the information on where this thing is sold, why don't they just bounce off your page right now, go to Amazon and then search it there. How about the fact that it doesn't even look like a button? I mean it says to visit Amazon but it doesn't say you need to click that to visit Amazon. It kind of just looks like a badge right? Third, orange, the color of this CTA, is the worst converting color ever historically. Orange is the color of caution. So you don't want to have your CTAs be orange. Lastly, this amazing 4 cent off deal is showcased in big bold later numbers here. You've really done these guys a solid by finding this 4 cent off deal on a $300 product. So this is just a very very typical terrible example of the CTAs generated for you by Amazon. I wonder why they're generated like that. Anyhow, another runner's up to terrible CTAs would be as follows. The Learn More button. Remember I've talked about this a few times. We have internet ADD. This guy just did a lot of learning on your website. He read your whole page. Now you're asking him to learn more. He's not going to want to do that. He's not going to click this. Another one would be check price and availability on Amazon. Now again, don't tell people where they can find it because they'll just go and go to that place and find it themselves. Now this one, what about the Buy Now button? It's very actionable. The color is blue and blue is a very nicely converting color. But asking people to buy something before you tell them the price is a huge turn off. Some older web users, for example, might actually think that if they click that button, some money is going to fly out of their bank account as soon as they touch it. So don't ask people to buy before you show them the price. The best converting CTAs, like I mentioned before, convey that you found the lowest price. They leave enough to the imagination. So you're not going to tell people what the price is. You're not going to tell them where to get it. Choose an opposite but complementary color. So there's very many different resources on the web where if you tell the colors that your website is, they'll suggest some opposite colors that are complementary to it. Like red and green, for example, blue and yellow. So if your site's blue, you can consider using yellow and sometimes even orange. No, definitely don't use orange, but red works good on blue as well too. And then lastly, the biggest thing about it is to split test. Use Optimizely or VWO. Before I actually started playing with A.B. split testing software, I had this disillusionment in my head that they were really, really complicated and it was really, really difficult to do A.B. split testing. And once I actually dug into Optimizely in particular, it's so easy to do this stuff. If you can handle running Microsoft Word, you can master Optimizely. If you can handle WordPress, you can handle Optimizely. It's super easy. But anyways, refer to the resources below and see how my business partner, Kurt, walks you through the whole process on how to set up a campaign. It really is that simple. A typical A.B. testing flow chart looks like this. So for a website that we were working on, we started off with the CTA that looked like this. Visit official website. It's playing to the persons or the readers ideal that they want to make sure that they get the right product. So tell them that they're going to visit the official website. It's a good thing, right? They're going to get the official website and the official product. We put that one up against click here for lowest price. Then we set up this campaign and Optimizely and we looked at the results. Check out the difference. The original version is visit official website. The split tested version is variation one. Click here for lowest price. Now we had the CTA on the page four different times at different spots in the whole lengthy article. Check out the increase in conversion. The first CTA, 85% higher. This one 100% higher. This one 17% higher. This bottom one, 283% higher. This CTA straight up works. So the testing isn't over at this point. AB testing is an ongoing process. Just because we picked the right words to put on the button, we picked the right color. So we go on to the second round. This button moves on and we put it up against red. Click here for lowest price. Okay. My initial instinct was blue is going to win. The button has the conveyance of a feeling of caution or danger or the devil or captain hook. I know a bunch of bad things, right? But anyways, the big, big thing about AB testing is you never assume. You never assume anything. You give everything a fair shot. Here's the results. The red CTA button was up 33%. So it just goes to show the power of testing here. Never assume anything. Let the data speak. This one is actually the best converting CTA that I've found so far. Of course, there's variations for every site and depending on the niche, maybe red's not the right color or maybe these words aren't the best, maybe best price is better or find out the best price or some kind of variation of this. Of course, I tweak it, but something like this, click here for the lowest price and red is the baseline button I put on most sites. Don't put your CTAs too early on the page in the sales cycle. We talked about this before, but if they're early in the sales cycle, don't pitch them right away with the CTA. It's going to turn them off. Instead, go ahead and move them through the sales cycle closer to a product review. So for example, if someone's like searching for the benefits of vitamin C serum, don't throw them a CTA right away. Talk about the benefits and then talk about what it can do for your skin and then get them to the idea of searching for a product that can help them out. The sidebar is the exception to this. We're talking about these rules that I'm talking about here, apply it to the main body of the content, but the sidebar is different. People expect to see advertisements in the sidebar, so this one's okay. In this case, right here, this is a page on one of the benefits of vitamin C serum, collagen and what collagen does for you. You see here, I do have a CTA that's right up here above the fold and right at the top of the content. This is okay to have it in the sidebar. When it comes to comparison pages, comparison pages might be like product roundup. We've got the top five products here. Typically what we do is we have a listing like this. I'll put in my CTAs here, click for best price here on the left-hand side. We do it like this because sometimes when you're looking on mobile, typically the right side will get cut off if someone has a small phone. Put it on the left-hand side so we'll get the CTA here. Then underneath this table, we'll have the blurb on why we think Obagi is the best product here. Then we'll use a bigger CTA like this, click here for best price. A single review page will look like this. I typically sprinkle more than one CTA into the content. People are looking to buy this pretty soon if they're reading the review. They already heard about the product. They just want to be told it does something good and then they're ready to buy. So I typically sprinkle about three to five inline CTAs into the content. What's the exactly right number? You need to test it to figure it out. Sometimes too much is too much. Sometimes you want to have maybe only as much as two CTAs. Just very easy to set up and optimise. Just set up a campaign with multiple CTAs, like five CTAs and put that against this campaign with three CTAs and then you add up the total number of clicks between all of them. Let it run for a couple of weeks to give you a result. Here's a common question. Should I use a button all the time or should I use text? Example of text for a CTA might be something like this. Click here for the best price on a bodgy. Does this work? Yeah, sometimes it deserves testing. Again, the niche is very specific on what it wants to see. In Garcia de Cambosia, this kind of text like this works better than buttons for me, for example. But also in general, it works better with text for pages that are further back in the sales cycle. So, for example, how to get rid of wrinkles. If someone is searching for how to get rid of wrinkles, you shouldn't pitch them with a product right away. But at the end of this article, you might have something like click here to read our obagi review, which is great with wrinkles, for example. In this case, I typically find that a button would perform less well than a textual link right here going to the obagi page. Extra things you should know. Always put a CTA at the bottom of every page. Why is that? It depends. But in the bottom of every page, people usually scroll down there. They expect to see something. They expect to see some action to be taken at the bottom of the page. So it might as well put a CTA there. But depending on where you are in the sales cycle, that affects which kind of CTA you have in there. So, for example, if someone is further back in the sales cycle, just try to get someone further to another page on your site that's further along the sales cycle, like the review of a particular product. Don't try to pitch them on buying the product right now, but get them to a review. But someone further over here in the sales cycle where they're searching for the best vitamin C serum or the best place to buy it or where to get it, should I buy it online or should I buy it in the store, go ahead and send them straight to the affiliate offer. The CTAs at the bottom of the pages typically should look a little bit bigger. So this is a typical CTA that I put at the bottom of the page. It's something bigger, louder. We're putting in support credibility indicators in here. Moneyback guarantees, fast delivery, natural badges. You can put the Visa symbol showing they accept all payment forms, all this kind of stuff. Just make it bigger and louder and taking up the full width of the bottom of the page. We also do something called the sticky sidebar widget. You'll find this in the resources. I'll give you the link to the actual plugin that we use. But basically what happens is when you scroll down on the page, this widget will follow you and we find that really helps with conversion from the sidebar. Now just a quick warning, this is okay to have on your page now, but Google does seem to be tightening the news on overly commercial intent content. So this particular ability to make a sticky widget might not be available forever. Just make sure to check in and I got you back. Hey guys, just one more last final note. If you didn't pick it up from earlier, all these CTAs probably are not okay for Amazon affiliates. Now, why do I say probably? Well I've talked to Amazon affiliates customer service before and they've told me straight up these are perfectly fine. Click here for best price, click here for lowest price is perfectly fine. But you've talked to other people that have said it's not okay. And the truth of the matter is Amazon's terms of service is so vague that you will never know for sure. So not only am I not recommending to use these CTAs for Amazon, but I'm not recommending to use any CTA for Amazon as I can't accept that liability. So I would probably just use for Amazon their recommended CTAs or whatever. I think they have just like a typical like check price on Amazon or something like that. But yeah, I wish I could give you more information on that, but I'm not really comfortable with it myself.


## 6.Negotiating Higher Payouts - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Negotiating higher payouts. Did you know that most affiliate networks are going to show you their initial payouts based on a rock bottom value? So if you log into your affiliate network and you see I get $35 every time I sell one of these, that's the lowest you can possibly get. They have a lot more wiggle room. And what's your pushing volume? They're always open to negotiation. How to negotiate a higher payout? Well step one, make good friends with your affiliate manager from the first day. Always be polite to them. Check in with them for time to time. Some questions you can ask them are just like, you know, can I see some new creatives for the products? I'd like to see some new marketing shots of the product and new banners and try them out on my site. It makes them see that you're motivated to sell the product and that you're very interested in doing the best in your power to become one of their top affiliates. Also you can ask them for new products to promote. And that's a very, very good idea if you're trying to get into new niches. These guys know exactly what's selling the most in their networks. They also know which ones are selling the most from SEO, which is what you need to focus on, the rankable products. Make sure to ask for feedback on your copy too. This is something they're happy to do. They'll take a look at your copy and I've had some affiliate managers come in and give me great, great feedback on why, for example, my casino site wasn't converting as much as others was. And it literally transformed my page from a very small earning site to a very, very large earning site. So the idea is make friends with your affiliate manager, not just so you can ask them for a higher payout later, but because they're very beneficial for you. It's a partnership here between you and the network. But anyways, when it gets down to it, once you're pushing volume, you have a few options here. Option number one, you can ask for a higher pay bump. So you can aggressively target new keywords. Just say, hey, we're doing really good with this campaign. I want to get into some more verticals and target people in a different sale cycle or different verticals or maybe even push a different package for your product. So so far I've been selling the single package of the product, but I want to sell three at a time. I might need some more money to go after a campaign like this. So can you consider bumping up my pay grade? You can also make more money out of it by offering to sell them your retargeting pixel. So if you put a Facebook retargeting pixel on your page, that'll keep track of every single viewer that comes to your site and what are their Facebook accounts, right? They can do a lot of good with this. They can retarget to these people. They can run ads for them, get them to a second chance on maybe a discount for the product. You can also talk to the competition and get a competitive price point to bargain with. If you're pushing a specific type of product and you talk to one of their competitors and you say, hey, I'm interested in maybe ranking you guys higher, what can you offer me? Now you have a price point to bargain with with the original product. By simply making good friends with my affiliate network manager and having checking conversations with them. And then finally, when I'm pushing some volume for that product, I've been able to repeatedly negotiate higher payouts on nearly all the products that I'm pushing. And I've had a product go from $30 for the initial sale up to $40 and then $50 all the way up to $55. That's nearly a 100% increase in profit.


## 7Todays Date Plugin - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Alright guys, so what I'm going to be doing right now is introducing you to a plugin that I've gotten a ton of mileage from throughout the past two, three years, inserting it into my content and getting increased conversion from it. I've tested it over and over again and almost always gets a positive result. Sometimes it doesn't work, but that's why we test, right? The plugin is called Today's Date Inserter. It's WordPress plugins, super easy to use. Before I jump into how to use it, I'm going to show you why it works. Now first things first, you guys are all marketers, so which marketing tactic always increases conversions? You've seen this all over the place. You've seen people talk about it. Some people call it a trick, but it's just fact that it works. What I'm talking about right now is scarcity. Marketers are always talking about scarcity, getting people to do what you want them to do, especially when it comes to affiliate, but just marketing in general. The two different types of scarcity that are most generally used, the first one could have something to do with inventory, first of all. Something on the page saying only 24 left in stock, or when you're on booking.com, right? It says stuff like two people are browsing this listing right now, only two rooms are left. What that does is it will obviously, it just makes you feel like if you don't buy it right now, you're not going to get the chance to later. Also, in addition to that, it also increases the perceived value of an item. If something is almost out of stock, then it must be something that's awesome, right? The second type of scarcity is where you would say they're running out of time. Running out of time to get a certain deal, or running out of time to ever be able to buy the product. This is the one I'm going to show you how to play with today. I'll introduce you to the Today's Date plugin. What you're going to do is you're going to go into WordPress and you search for Today's Date Inserter. That's the full name of it. Use the apostrophe. It finds it a little bit better. What it does is this. You'll be able to insert short code into your text. That will do an automatic lookup to pull up Today's Month, Day, and Year, and input it automatically onto your page and into your content. As a result, if you use it cleverly, it's going to increase your conversions a boatload. Here's how to use it. First, I want you to go back and review the video setting up your CTAs. This will give you a reminder in the foundation of why it's so important to have good copy and be very strong in your sales copy right around the CTAs because that's the closest thing, or the most recent thing people have read before. It's time to buy something so it makes sense to do a good job right here. Then near the CTA, then you're going to insert the scarcity. Let me show you what that looks like. An example number one. This is actual text that you could put on your site. Obviously, you want to spin this up. We don't want to make a footprint between all our students. You could write something like this. This product is currently on sale until the end of, and now here's where the code comes in for the plugin. Today's date kicks off the short code. Then format is where you can format it. The format I'm using, and this is normal like CSS time convention, and f means month, y means year. This is what it would look like if you had a fictational site selling NIMIS 2000s, Harry Potter broomsticks. It'll show up right here at the bottom. This is where I put it in. This product is currently on sale until the end of December 2017. One comes to this page, and right now it's December 4th, 2017. They come to this page and they say, holy crap, this is on sale until the end of the month, December. I should jump on it. Another example of this might look like this. The link below gets you to the official supplier, which is the best price available on the NIMIS 2000 as of today's date. This is just going to give it to you raw, exactly with no formatting settings, exactly what the default is for the today's date plugin. If you want to have it look like this, the link below will get you to the official supplier, which has the best price available on the NIMIS 2000 as of Monday, December 4th, 2017. The person that sees this just sees, wow, okay, this guy is really on top of those NIMIS 2000s, and he's updated this today. This guy must really track down the best prices. I trust this guy. Let me buy this thing. Some test results, and these test results were done quite a while back. I've been using this for a while. I don't need to test it anymore, but I tested on a few different websites. This is website number one, FTX, and the acronym for the second website is REST. I tested on different URLs. Obviously, I have more than one money page on the site. Here's money page number one. It has four different CTAs on the page. Here's money page number two. This has five different CTAs, and so forth. Number three has four CTAs. Here's the optimizer result when I'm comparing the click on the CTA with and without this plug-in installed, which is creating the scarcity. You can see 99% of the time, I get a positive result, and sometimes it's a very, very big positive result. On average, we increase conversion 7.65%, which is great if you were selling something that was, or if you're making $1,000 a month off to a certain CTA, you just increase your revenue by 70 bucks just by doing this thing. In some cases, you can go up to 20%, and I see that happen over and over. Sometimes it just doesn't work. I'm not sure why, and it doesn't really do you any good to try to figure out why. Just do the testing, and you'll figure out, and then you can move on to the next thing. Some FAQs. Is this Amazon safe? If you have an Amazon affiliate site, it is a good idea to put today's date on there, because Amazon is very sensitive about the copy you put on the site and what you say and unjustified claims and stuff like that. What I'm going to say here is probably not. I can't think of too many instances where you'd want to use this plug-in to your advantage, and it wouldn't be Amazon unfriendly. Another question might be, what else can you do with it? One thing you can do is you can show that your content is current. For example, you could do something at the top of your post and say something like, this post was updated on today's date, and then format then the day, the month. I always just hard-code in the first of the month, so no matter when they look at it, it's always going to be in the past. It's not going to be something in the future. If you put the exact day today, like December 4th, for example, it looks a little bit fake. This is really updated today, but if I were to go to this page, I could see Monday, December 1st. That was three days ago. That's pretty damn current. Okay, let me read on. Then you got the year here too. This just shows a little bit that this is something, whatever you're about to read, is something that's very current and you should pay attention to it. What else can we do with this plug-in? I'm going to leave that up to you guys. Let's see if we can get a discussion and we'll talk about it in the Facebook group. We can see what other usage of this plug-in can we do to increase CRO.


## 8.Creative Monetization (Part 1) - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Hello, good evening everyone. So we got the go from the techniques. So hi everyone, welcome to the third workshop for digital marketing bootcamp series. I hope you're all well. Just a quick question. How many of you said to bring it back to step, we've been doing three workshops and the first workshop was me talking about market potential analysis, keyword research defining your niche. The second workshop was my friend Colin talking about PR and back click building, how to create a media bus and how to generate traffic. And today we'll have beautiful Matt talking about how to make money on your website. But before we get started, I want to get a few for you guys and who's our most loyal fan. Who's been coming to this workshop series tonight for the first time? All right, you're Matt's fans, I can tell that. Who's been coming to two workshops? Nice. How many people have been coming to all three workshops? Thank you very much. I really appreciate that. So yeah, I'm going to hand it over to Matt and Matt is going to tell you once you manage to generate traffic for your site, what are the most creative out of the box ways you've never heard of to make money on your website? Please give me a big round of applause for Matt Diggity. How's it going everybody? First off, big thank you for everybody for coming out. Normally, I'm always just talking about super nerdy stuff, SEO, ranking websites, stuff like that. But a big passion of mine is actually talking about monetization, conversion rate optimization. I rarely get to talk about it. So thank you guys for showing up and being able to be my audience on that tip. Now, before we get started, let's do a quick survey by a show of hands. Can you raise your hand if you own a website? Sheesh. All right. Can you raise your hand if you monetize with affiliate marketing? Does anyone not know what affiliate marketing is? Okay, we got the right crowd here today. Okay, raise your hand if you monetize with affiliate marketing. Awesome. Raise your hand if you have a website and you monetize it with your own offerings. So maybe your own courses, your own products. Great. Now, go ahead and raise your hand if you haven't quite got to this level of monetizing a website, but this is something you're interested in. Good. All right. We got a full house on our hands that you guys are in the right place. We're going to be talking about exactly what you want to talk about, which is creative monetization. What I'm going to be talking about today is not your normal run of the mill ways to monetize a website, affiliate marketing, CPA ads, AdSense, stuff like that. We're going to talk about outside of the box stuff that can not only get you monetized in different ways, but it can reach different customers that you wouldn't have reached in the first place. You can make more money from your existing traffic, et cetera. I'm happy to jump into this today. So before I get into it, I just want to introduce myself other than being beautiful Matt. I'm also known as Matt Diggity. My background before I ever got into SEO, I used to be an electrical engineer back in California. And my days as an electrical engineer freaking sucked. Okay, I used to work in a cubicle 60 hour weeks. It was really technical, really challenging, customers sucked, bosses sucked. I hated it. So pretty much like all you guys, I started researching ways to make money online, researching ways to start my own business. And I found the four hour work week. And then in 2009, I started experimenting around with affiliate SEO, so ranking websites and monetizing them through affiliate traffic. And then 2011 rolls around and I'm starting to feel pretty comfortable with this. I'm starting to make enough money that's superseding how much money I was making as an engineer. So I pulled the plug on that job, moved out to Thailand and been full blast SEO ever since. So this is what it's looked like since I've started doing SEO full time. I have a company called Lead Spring. Lead Spring is basically an agency for affiliate SEO. So we don't take on any clients. All we do is pump out our own affiliate SEO websites, build them up and then flip them. That's 100% of what we're doing. We're just completely focused on affiliate SEO. In addition to that, I blog at digitymarketing.com about SEO. I have a client agency called the Search Initiative. I have a couple of services for SEO called Digity Links and Authority Builders. So these provide backlinks for other SEOs that need to get ranked higher. And I teach SEO in a couple different formats. One is through the lab, which is my course, and also through personal consulting. Now as you can see, I'm really wrapped up in this SEO game. And I do it every day, seven days a week. I'm really involved in it. And again, it gives me great happiness to be able to talk about something that's not that. So thank you for showing up. Now why would we get creative about monetization in the first place? So why would you want to? We have these tried and true ways to monetize websites, Amazon affiliates, CPA, AdSense. Who are we to go out and say, hmm, this might not be enough? Who are we to try to reinvent the wheel and work on different streams of making revenue with our websites? Well, here's why. First off, any niche that you're in, there's a finite amount of people in it, right? Let's say paintball. Paintball is a pretty popular sport, but there's only so many people searching for paintball on the internet. So there's a finite amount of people that will reach your website and a finite amount of profit that you can make from it. And let's say take something else on the high end, cryptocurrency, right? Maybe everyone in here is intracrypto-currency. Maybe everyone in the planet is into it. But even so, there's a finite amount of people on the planet that are into it, maybe not so much today or yesterday, but there's a finite amount of people, so there's a finite ceiling on how much you can make from your site. So what I'm suggesting we do is we look at different ways to monetize our website. Outside the box, I don't want to create additional monetization streams where I'm going to distract visitors with, okay, I've landed on this page. Should I do this? Should I do that or do this? It's not about that. These are complementary monetization schemes that are different than what you've seen before. So I want to talk to you about a case study. Now, this case study, I can't reveal the name right now. If anyone knows what it's going to SEO, I do. I'm what you would call a naughty SEO. I break the rules. People say I'm a gray hat SEO. I don't know what color the hats are, but I mix black hat techniques and I mix white hat techniques together. But anyways, releasing a case study for a guy like me is probably not a good idea because, yeah, could get reported and whatnot. But this case study will eventually be released. The plan is to eventually take all the black hat stuff that's on the site, convert it into completely white hats so I can release this to the public. This is the first time I've been able to do something like this. So you'll be able to see this case study firsthand. But let me describe it without revealing the name and tell you what's going on with it so far. I purchased this website August 13, 2017. It's in the weight loss niche. So the niche is weight loss. I bought it in a private sale, so I didn't go through a marketplace, sorry, Empire Flippers, but I went through a private sale. The purchase price was $53,000. And what that means is that the site itself was making a monthly average profit of $2,135, $25. Okay? Here's the goal. This is what we wanted to do with it. I want to increase monthly profit to 10K a month and then eventually flip this website for over $300,000. Now, this is totally possible. Typically these days, what would you say average multiple is on a website flipping these days? Okay, let's say upper 20 is lower 30. So if this site was making 10K a month, then it could easily flip for $300,000 if we're talking about 30X multiple. So this is within our range. When do I want to do this? This is the game I want to do as fast as possible. I want to see how quickly I can take over the site and increase the profit on it. So I'm not going to just simply rely on SEO to get the rankings higher, get more traffic. I need to get creative on the way I'm monetizing the site as well. So here's a four month progress report so far on the site. August revenue was $2,125. At the end of December, we're looking at $7,529. So that's 354% growth in four months. That's pretty solid. So the subject of this presentation today is what the heck did I do? What did I do to increase the monetization on the site? What did I add to this site beyond normal SEO ranking? That's what we're going to go over. So on our agenda, what we're going to talk about is four monetization techniques. These techniques are cross-selling, pixel monetization, product replacement, and monetize email follow-ups. Now before I start jumping into each one of these, I want to give you the characteristics of what I'm looking for, what I'm choosing these monetization methods. The first most important characteristic is I'm looking for monetization streams that are complementary. I talked about this before. Now what I mean by complementary, I don't want it to interfere with the existing monetization on the site. Any Americans in here? Okay. You guys ever ate an In-N-Out? Yeah, it's freaking good, right? Okay, what does In-N-Out do so well? Other than selling a cheeseburger that very well might change your life, what is special about their marketing? Like when you walk into the store, what do you notice? Any takers? Sorry? Speed, yeah. What about their selection? You notice anything about the selection? Freakin' simple. Freakin' simple. They got cheeseburger, hamburger, milkshake, drink, and fries. That's it. That's their whole freaking menu. There's something called paradox of choice. Paradox of choice is basically this concept that when a buyer buys something, the more choices that were available to them when they bought that, the more dissatisfaction they'll have with their purchase, the more FOMO they'll have about the other things they could have bought. Let's say, for example, like me sitting back home in California, trying to decide where am I going to live after I leave my day job? And I decide, okay, Chiang Mai, I've loved that place the whole time, let's move there. That's a pretty easy decision. I'm not going to have any regrets. That's the only thing that was on my list. But if I had major wanderlust and I had 20 different cities I wanted to live in, that's some major FOMO, right? So the idea here is not to give your viewers a whole bunch of different monetization options because they're not going to come back to your site. They're not going to ever come back and convert again. You want to optimize their experience. So there's this concept called one page, one goal. And I first heard about this at Nomad Summit last year by Quinn Zeta. And basically the concept is really simple. On every single page on your website, you should only try to be getting your visitor to do one thing. Just one thing. Don't have multiple things going on at the same time. It's just going to distract them and you won't convert as much. So here's a list of various monetization techniques. I took this from an authority hacker article. No one can read that probably. But it's basically a huge post on all these different ways to monetize your site. We got CPC ads, paid reviews, sponsored content, physical products, courses, all this stuff. Now if you were to take any one of these two things and slap them on the same page, that's just going to distract your visitors. If you put Amazon clicks to try to get people to sell like your ergonomic chair there and also have AdSense about bag pain, it's just going to confuse people. They're not going to trust you. They're going to think your article is just about conversion and no one's going to buy shit. So complimentary is the number one characteristic we're looking for. Number two is I want all these monetization schemes to be automated. I want to go in once, set up these monetization streams and never think about it again. I'm not looking to require extra work once I've set it up. I've done dozens of money sites. I don't want to, for example, if I were to slap up coaching on one of my sites, then every time I get a conversion, I got to sit down with the person and coach them. Or even sponsored content. Sponsored content would be someone reaches out to me and says, okay, I see that you're the owner of this blog. I'm going to send you one of my products and pay you 500 bucks to review it on your site. That's great and all, but every time I convert, that's more work for me. So that's not what I'm interested in either. Complementary and automated is what we're looking for. So let's talk about the first method, cross-selling. This is what a typical affiliate website looks like. And this type of website is what we call review roundup. And you guys have definitely seen these before. I bet a bunch of you have them yourselves. In the review roundup, you do something like, here's an example of best cold press juicers. You're laughing, is that your sign or shit? Okay, best cold press juicers. So someone searching for best cold press juicers or cold press juicer reviews might land on this page. And this guy would review, he would have a list of very short descriptions of what he believes to be the best cold press juicers are. And then you would have individual pages here, which are reviewing each juicer in full. So that's a very, very typical affiliate website, hierarchy, architecture, whatever. And this is very common in the Amazon affiliate. Here's another architecture. This would be a single product review. Now, on this website, this dude has, on his homepage, it's about Garcia Cambogia review. Garcia Cambogia is a supplement. It's not a specific product. It's a type of supplement. So on the homepage he's going out, he's reviewing the supplement as how feasible the supplement is itself. And then he's going to recommend people to another page where he's recommending an individual product like Garcia Life Plus. I don't even know if that's a real product. But this is what it typically looks like. Okay. The problem with both of these structures is there's a lot of lost opportunity. What is the lost opportunity? Well, there's more than five juicers on the planet. Right? This guy decided to do the top five juicers. Guess what? There's more than that. And there's also more than one Garcia product. So this is a whole bunch left on the table. What I'm suggesting to do is you're going to go out and you're going to review every single product there is. You're going to capture all that traffic and you're going to cross sell them into your preferred product. So something that might have crossed your mind. Let's say for example, going talking about juicers, right? Some dude did a top five review. Number six is called the Boswell 123, for example. So someone's searching for Boswell 123 review and they land on your page. Why wouldn't you just try to sell them the Boswell 123? Right? They already have that in their head. This is what I reply to that. You want to sell their preferred product for these reasons. Number one, it converts the best. Especially if it has any kind of brand recognition. Now, let's imagine you're working at a drug store or something. Your boss tells you you need to sell like 500 boxes of tissue paper, right? You're going to go out and you're going to sell Kleenex because that's what people know. It's going to be much easier to sell than a no-name brand, right? So the preferred product typically converts the best. Are there any CrossFit people in here? OK. So with CrossFit, have you ever heard of Rogue Fitness? OK. You have. Thank you for saving me. So I had a client and he had an affiliate website. It was an authority site in the CrossFit niche. And he was giving people recommendations on how to build a home gym. When he was recommending Rogue, he was making five figures a month. He did something that violated the terms of service. He got cut off from them. And when he started recommending Amazon products and other stuff like that, his income went down in the hundreds range. That's how much Rogue is trusted within that community. So that's another reason why you want to sell your preferred product. In addition to that, your preferred product probably pays you the most. That's probably why you put it number one. Perhaps you have a one-on-one deal with the provider of the product itself. Much better than your Amazon associates, 8% or even if it's that much, right? And then lastly, it might be your only option. Maybe you got banned on Amazon affiliates, which can easily happen. Let's hold up for a little bit. Here comes the plane. Welcome to Chiang Mai. All right. Can you hear me in back? Good. Good. Okay. It might be your only option. Perhaps you got kicked off your network. I had a specific case where I was promoting a very, very big brand of supple. I'm just doing my thing, ranking my web pages, getting ranked higher in Google. And I started to rank over the brand itself. Guess what? We got an email the next day saying, we had to cut you off from the affiliate program. So great. I had no choice in this situation but to cross sell the competitor's product. All right. Now in cross selling, it's not quite as simple and straightforward as reviewing a product positively and then trying to sell people that product. What you need to do is you need to give people to trust you, read your review about product A and then sell them product B. So that's the name of the game. I've distilled this down to various steps that you should take in order to make this happen. Step one, in the intro of your article, don't reveal anything. Don't give away the final punch line. Don't give away your positive or negative review about it. The goal here is just to get them reading. So use all your normal copy techniques like instilling fear if they don't read this article, entertaining them, showing that you know what you're talking about. Just get them reading at this point. Secondly, after the introduction teaser paragraph, you're going to give them a hyperlink that will jump to the end of the article. So this is for the people that don't have that much time on their hands. They just want to find the conclusion and move on with their life. So this will be able to sweep up those guys that don't have time to read your 2000 word review. Now I don't recommend doing that for a positive review. To sell something positively, it takes a little bit more finesse. You've got to walk people through the sales cycle. You don't want to jump to the conclusion right away. But if you're dissing on something, that's easy. People are skeptical anyways. You can do that right away. Oh, come on. All right. We good? Good. So here's an example of what I would write in my teaser paragraph. I might say, product ABC review. Does it actually live up to the hype? If you've been a reader of my blog, you'd know that I'm an absolute fanatic about flipping the floppy. I'm just making this shit up. This one is, It's the best in 2018. Is it true or is it just marketing hype? I set up to give product ABC a full, unbiased review so you don't have to go through all the trouble of testing yourself. There's fear involved. If you don't read this, you're going to have to do all this testing yourself. Click to jump to the conclusion for the people that don't have time. Step three, the review should be mostly good. So have your writers go out and do your research. Find all the good things that people say about the product. You want to make this review seem believable. If a celebrity endorses the product, mention that. Say Joe Rogan uses this every day when he wakes up. So you want it to be mostly good, but you're going to have one fatal flaw with this product review, and that's based on personal opinion. So that might look like this. In my experience with Product ABC, it works as advertised. I was flipping flopping better than normal. That said, I have one major bone to pick with it, the taste. Product ABC is literally unbearable to the taste. I have a pretty strong stomach, but even I had a hard time keeping it down. Okay, so we got a pause review, but there's something based on personal opinion that is pretty much a deal breaker. Now five. Assign a grade or a score in the conclusion. So this is for the people that jump to the end of your article. So you're going to resign a three out of five or whatever that is. Have your writer do their research and find out something that seems reasonable. And then you're going to pitch the preferred product. So mine look like this. Overall, I give Product ABC a C plus. As mentioned, it does what it says it will do. But the taste is terrible and for the price it's offered at, this shouldn't be an issue. After this test was concluded, I happily went back to using my go-to product XYZ, which actually tastes good and is cheaper as well. I also feel like I get a better flip and flop and result using Product XYZ. Check them out here and that's where you have your CTA. So actually at the end of an article, I recommend using what's called a creative. It's going to have a picture of the product you're recommending and like some stars and like some marketing copy in there. But I didn't have room on the slide, so that's what you get. Okay, so this approach not only gets people to read, but it's believable, right? We've talked about everything great about it. We just have a personal bone to pick with it. Here's the results so far with this methodology of cross selling. So this is a report from Clicky, my analytics traffic software. And what we're looking at here is each page on my website. I blocked them out, so you guys can't see this, not a public case study yet. But these are the various pages and how much traffic is associated with these pages. Now remember I told you guys the affiliate provider for the main product, the big brand, they cut me off because I started to rank higher than them. That's the largest traffic page on my site, 49,000 visitors per month. It has even more traffic than my homepage here. And then we look all the way down at the bottom, product XYZ. This is our preferred product. This is the one we want to sell. It gives us the best affiliate commission. I work great with their manager. Everything's great about it. But it's just not a popular product. No one's really searching for it itself. So this is what happened when we switched things over. Okay, so August revenue, right? Product ABC was making $492 per month. XYZ was making $1,400 for a grand total of $1,900 per month. So fast forward to December, product ABC that cut us off. They said you can't rank higher than us, that ain't cool, you're done. So we started cross selling product XYZ. Now product XYZ is making $6,256 per month. Thank you for cutting me off. Good, I'm glad you did that to us. That's a 227% increase in profit by getting people all this traffic. I mean, that's a lot of traffic, 49,000 visitors per month, and getting them by the product that we want. So this is the power of cross selling. Cool. Next, pixel monetization. This is a snapshot of monthly traffic for my website. And you can see here, traffic has been growing since we got it. We bought it at this point. Traffic has been increasing. January is not even done yet, like 18th of January, something like that. And we already have as much traffic as December. Weight loss is awesome in January as a niche. So this is obviously is really good data for me, or really good information for me. More traffic to my site means more possible conversions, more possible airplanes, time for kombucha. But who else might find this traffic data useful? Any takers? Sorry, again? Any company that sells products that we lost? Yeah, exactly. Any company selling the products in the weight loss space, in particular, my affiliate provider, right? The affiliate provider themselves is interested in this data. And why is that? Keep running with it. Exactly, retargeting. They can take all this information and retarget them with very, very cheap Facebook ads on people that are already looking for exactly what they're selling. So I got this idea. Let's pitch these guys the rental of the Facebook pixel. I've never seen this before, so I thought I'd try it out. Okay, here's how I pitched it. Hey, Chris, do you guys run any Facebook advertisements? In July, my website had 31,000 visitors, and that's gonna continue to rise. Here's a snapshot of the ranking graph at that time. Your competitor approached me about buying access to the retargeting pixel, but I wanted to talk to you about it first. It may or may not have happened. Okay, so he reprised about, hey, Matt, thanks for thinking of us. We're definitely up for that. What are you looking for? Hey, Chris, your competitor hasn't made me an offer yet. Probably never will. Typically for pixels, with this level of traffic, they go for about $1,000 per month. If traffic 2x is down the road, then we can negotiate, but I'm okay with locking that in for three months. I'm giving myself room to renegotiate later. So if we do double traffic, which we did, we can maybe get more out of this down the road. We're not locked in at 1,000. Right on, definitely makes sense. What's flexible down the road is traffic changes. For now, we can do 1,000 a month and test it. So here's the close, and typically in a close, if you guys do outreach or anything like that, you change your language, you get a little bit more abrupt, you get a little bit more urgent with it. So this is why I said, hey, Chris, sounds good. Here's a PayPal subscription link to get the started call to action right there. All he has to do is click that, and he can have this data. As soon as that's paid, I'll let your competitor know that's not for sale. Please send me over your PayPal pixel code and I'll get it installed today. So I'm ready to get you fired up and ready to go today. And if you don't mind, I'm doing a bunch of retargeting myself and other verticals. And would love to see how you guys are doing with this. It's my current geek of the month topic. So he knows he's partnering with someone who's also interested with this, and then we can feedback to each other. So boom, 30 minutes of work. I highly doubt it was even 30 minutes of work. We increased the monthly revenue of the site by $1,000 a month. At a 32X multiple, increased the flip price by $32,000. That's $64,000 for an hour. Yeah, I'm good with that. And this is super easy to do. Think about your websites right now. Think about how you can pitch them this. I don't care if you steal my pitch.
