# Module 14 — Onsite SEO: Website Maintenance

## 1.Website Maintenance- What to Do With Your Site After Its Built - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Website maintenance. What to do with your site after it's built. Once you build your site, it's unfortunately not done. You need to continue to nurture and grow your site and also to make sure you're ranking for everything you should be ranking for. So what you're about to learn in this module is first, how to keep your site updated with fresh content. And second, how to use SCM Rush to find out what you're accidentally ranking for so you can capitalize on those keywords.


## 2.Fresh Content - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Now we're going to be talking about fresh content and why you need to make sure that your site is continuously updated with new and fresh content. There is indeed a fresh content algorithm. Now just remember, Google's job is to serve the best search results to people that are looking for information. Google wants the content that serves up to be fresh, accurate and up to date because that's typically what goes along with the best results, something that is accurate and relevant to today. Thus, there's a fresh content algorithm and by adding new content to your site, you can use it to your advantage. Now what I'm about to teach you is actually the bare minimum. This is the point of diminishing returns. This is what I found is the bare minimum that you can do. You can do twice as much as this but you're not going to get too extra results. Because that's a point of diminishing returns. That said, some of my sites, I'm doing well more than this bare minimum. It just depends on your niche and you can play around with this. Some niches get way more traction by frequent updates. But at the very bare minimum, this is what you're going to do. At least once per month, you're going to do two things. The first thing you're going to do is you're going to increase the size of your site by one. The second thing you're going to do is you're going to update an existing piece of money ranking content. Increasing the size of your site by one, very simple. You're going to add at least one new page or post of content per month. When you do that, you're going to syndicate it to your social fortress. Meaning that if you just added a new page to your site, you're going to make sure that that new page gets shared on Facebook, gets shared on Twitter, etc. When you syndicate this thing, if it's a page, you've got to do this manually. Pages you have to actually log into the Facebook and share that page on the Facebook page yourself. Post because you set up IFTTT, that will happen automatically. When you create this new piece of content, you're going to link to other relevant pages on your site to increase the topical relevance of the pages that you're linking to. If you want to review on topical relevance and why this is helpful, go ahead and go back to the previous videos on topical relevance. Now there are some pitfalls along with this. Pitfall number one is beware of topic duplication issues. Mind the three kings. So every month I'm asking you to increase the size of your site by one. That means you're going to be writing at least a new article or post or something new on your site. Just make sure that you haven't already talked about this topic before. And it can be quite sensitive. But in doubt, just look at the three kings and ask yourself, do I have a lot of keyword overlap with this new post and an existing post or page on my site? If you do, think about this, do some edits, review the topic duplication issue and fix it. Also watch out for internal anchor text problems. Because we do have indeed rules for internal anchor text. Remember the story I told you about how I went way too aggressive with the internal anchor text and tanks my site right before the holiday season. Don't do that. Remember we always have to keep internal accounting of our internal anchor text whenever we're linking to pages that have a high amount of internal links. For example, the home page. Likely any new post that you create for your site has something to do with the topic of the home page because that's the whole point of creating new content. Because it's relevant to your site. You're going to naturally link this to the home page to increase its topical relevance. Make sure we're not going too aggressive on internal anchor text. Keep the balance. In addition to increasing the size of the site, we're also going to update an existing piece of money content. Why does this work? Let's use an example here. Let's imagine there's an SEO named Sam. Sam has a website at the top of page 2. Maybe it's sitting at number 12. Sam goes out and updates that piece of content that's ranking at number 12. Now Google sees, hey, this is now the freshest piece of content on page 2. It's completely up to date. Let's make sure that it doesn't deserve to be higher. I'm going to go ahead and test them a little bit higher. Maybe I'll move them up to number 8. So that's what happens. You start dancing a little bit higher. It's going to jump from number 12 to 8 back and forth. When it's sitting at number 8, Google is testing to see what are the user metrics now? What's it like when people are visiting this page in the 8th position? Or is the time on site a bounce rate just as good as the guy that I just displaced to put him here? Someone had to leave and go from 8 to 9 while this test is occurring and Sam's site is getting tested on page 1. What does Sam's user metrics look like? Are they superior to the guy you replace? If so, there's a chance that Sam will stay in the higher position. This is just like the Google dance. Google dance also works in the opposite direction. You do something bad with your site and they're going to test you down lower. But this specific instance of the Google dance, we're doing something positive to our site and forcing them to test us higher. By continuously updating the pages we're trying to rank, we're continuously telling Google to test us higher. So how it works is just like this. At least once a month, write a note for yourself, set a Google calendar appointment recurring, and just tell yourself to update existing content. Examples of this is just do something simple. Add a sentence, remove a sentence, swap an image, add a video, change a testimonial. It's all really easy. This is enough to tell Google, hey, now my content is more fresh. But you can be smart about it. If you see that you're ranked number 5 for easy ways to get rid of warts, for example, and you don't have the word easy on the page or you don't have the word ways on the page, here's an opportunity to satisfy the algorithm as well as target more keywords, which means more traffic. Now in the next video, Jay's going to show you how to do this systematically by using SEMrush to find out keywords that you could be ranking for that you had no clue about before.


## 3.Keyword Grabbing (SEMrush) - The Affiliate Lab.ts

On this video, I'm going to show you how to grab more keywords for your existing pages using SEMrush. We do this on our existing websites every three months to find keywords that we might have missed on our keyword research. Or simply keywords that we just accidentally started ranking for. We want to be able to optimize our pages for these keywords, as well as track them and target them with our link building efforts. So now I'm going to demo this process using SEMrush with the keyword Best Juicer Reviews. So let's go and Google and type in Best Juicer Reviews. And then we're just going to pick a random website on page two. Now let's check this one out. Let's grab the URL and then paste in SEMrush. Make sure it's on organic research using the right country as well as just searching the exact URL. So the next thing you want to do is export. So right now we're on the sheet. I've also sorted it by search volume so we can prioritize the higher keywords first. With this process, you will see three types of keywords which I will show you. The first type of keyword are keywords that you can build a new page for. Two, keywords that you're ranking decently for but don't have it in the content yet. Three, keywords that are decently ranking for but don't have it enough times in the content. So the first one I'll show you are keywords that are ranking, you are ranking for but do not have a page for that site yet. Your page just accidentally ranked for it. So I'll show you right here this one. So these three keywords which are cold pressed juice, cold pressed juice, and what is cold pressed juice. So the homepage is ranking for it and the homepage is about the best cold pressed juice reviews. So let's check the site if the site has a page for that topic. So the homepage is actually showing for that search. It's the first result. And if you look at the homepage, it doesn't really talk about cold pressed juice. So it's definitely a good idea to create a page for these keywords. So let's create a new tab. Say what is cold pressed juice and then put these keyword in there. So that is the first type of keyword that you will see keywords that you can build a new page for. And now I'm going to show you keywords that are ranking decently, but it's not in the content. So let's go through this one. Okay, you'll see right here. I'm just going to highlight it in yellow. So this keyword juicers Amazon. Let's check it out. Ranked number 19 for it. But if you go in the site, you look for juicers, it's on the page. But if you look on for Amazon, you can see right here, it's not even mentioned on the page. So that's a very good keyword to optimize for. And let's keep looking. Here's another good example, juicers for sale. If you type in juicers, 27 mentions. But if you type sale, zero mentions right here on the page. So this is another good keyword for keywords that are ranking decently, but definitely not on the page yet. And lastly, the third type is keywords that are ranking decently, but don't have it enough times in the content. So let's scroll up a little bit. Okay, best juicers on the market ranked number 13. If you look here, best, it's mentioned 29 times. That's fine. Juicers mentioned 27 times. That's fine on the market mentioned once in the content. So this one can definitely improved. Also, let's look for more. You can see here, cheap juicer ranked number 38. But if you type in cheap, it's only mentioned once in the content. So you want to include this as well. So you want to go through all these keywords and then make sure you put the new keywords in that you can build a new page for in a different tab so you don't mess it up. And then you make sure that you highlight all the keywords that you can either add more or just add in the content. So once you've done that, make sure you document it in your website documentation sheet and then add it in your tracking tool. And once you've done that, you can do it for all your pages as well. And then that's it for this video.


## 4.Finding New Content Ideas - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Hey guys, on this video I'm going to show you different ways that you can use to find new content ideas for your website. So if you have a new website and you're looking for amazing topics that you can start your site off with, this one's great for you. Or if you have an existing website and you're just looking to ramp up your content, and this one's great for you as well. So let's start off with Ahrefs. And let's go to Content Explorer, select Entitle. And then this technique is great if you're looking for single product reviews or brain reviews. This one's perfect for that one. So first off, let's start with a topic. Let's do a protein powder review. As you can see, you've got a bunch of results here. Just want to go through every single one of them and see if you already have a page for it or not. And you can see the organic traffic right here. So this topic has 2.7 thousand organic traffic a month. And then this one says that it has 122 organic traffic a month. So yeah, basically you just want to go through the results. And if this is your first time doing it, I'd suggest going through every single one of them. But once you've done that, I'd suggest doing it on a monthly basis and then edit the publish date and then select last month. So it'll just show you the results from last month. And another cool trick that I found with Ahrefs is that you can find new pages or content ideas with very minimal competition but with some good organic traffic. So let's just put this back on all time. And then click referring domains. Let's put maximum 5 referring domains. And then let's put a minimum of 100 organic traffic. Now it'll filter all the pages with very weak competition but have a lot of searches. So those are the cool tricks that you can do with Ahrefs. And another cool feature with Ahrefs is the keyword explorer. So it's opening up right here. Strip in protein powder. And then this feature right here newly discovered. So this feature, what it does is that it scrapes new keywords that have been trending. And this one is great if you're looking for trending content ideas or like I mean trending topics that you want to write about. Or like it's more tailored to look for informational content rather than product review pages or brand reviews but you can definitely find new product reviews here. But it will definitely get more trending topics. So yeah you just want to go through the list right here and then see if you have a page for it. If you don't definitely it would be a good idea to create a page because if it's trending it's definitely going to grow more. And also you can edit the time here and you can also sort the volume and keyword difficulty and that's it for Ahrefs. So next up is BuzzSumo. BuzzSumo is great if you're looking for amazing content ideas whether you have an existing site or a new site. So what the platform does is that it scrapes the internet for topics or content ideas that have been shared a lot. So there are two features that we like to use on here. This one is content research and then most shared. Normally we leave the settings by default or sometimes we'll play around with it. We'll put past five years or past two years but for this demo we'll just do the past year. And for the topic let's do protein powder again. So you can see right here Facebook engagements, Twitter shares, Pinterest shares, Reddit and then you can see total engagements right here. So the next thing you want to do is to go through the results one by one from top to bottom and then see what kind of topics you want to add to your site or what topics you want to start your site off with. So whenever you find new articles you definitely want to check them out as well and then see what kind of topics you're talking about on the article itself so you can do the same thing on yours. So definitely get as many as you can right here and that's pretty much it for the first feature. And the next feature is trending now. So it's pretty straightforward. It's like an alert system. It'll just alert you whenever something new comes up. So let's just add a trending feed right here. Put in a feed, say protein powder feed and then type in topics, say protein powder, waste, whey protein, protein supplement and then just add more topics if you want. And then for the domains, this is the source. If you put Facebook.com here, it'll search Facebook for these topics or if you put say Twitter, it'll search Twitter for those topics that you've added. So normally we just leave it empty so it'll search anywhere and for countries we normally leave it empty as well unless you have like a specific country that you're working in and it's definitely a good idea to put a country in there. And then you can also add domains so you want to exclude and that's pretty much it. And then you just click add feed and you're done. So last but not least is answer to public. Answer to public is a free tool but you only get a limited amount of searches. So if you are looking to use it more often than getting the pro version is worth it. So the pro version is 49 bucks a month. And what it does is that it gets you a lot of different content ideas as well as topics that you can add onto your existing pages. So just to show you an example, let's type in protein powder for the topic and get questions. Okay, now that it's done loading, let's scroll down. You can see that we have a ton of content ideas on here. Some of them you can create a new page for and a lot of them you can just add into your existing page and just cover more keywords so you can get more traffic onto your page. And another cool trick that I'm going to show you is to download this plugin called Keywords Everywhere. It's actually a Chrome extension. I've already downloaded it but if you activate it, I'll show you without first. So if you hover over these keywords, you don't see anything. But if you have the Chrome extension and you turn it on, this is a free tool by the way. What it does is that it gets search volume. So let me just reload the page real quick. So this is what it looks like if you have the plugin called Keywords Everywhere. You can just hover around the keywords and it'll show you how much search volume it has, even cost per click. And if you just scroll down here, you can see there's more data that you can easily see. And it's just a great tool if you're using tools like this, like Answer the Public. So you don't have to actually just grab every single keyword and do it one by one on the HREFS. So it's just a cool tool to use. And that's pretty much it for Answer the Public.


## 5.Content Updates  Rewrites - The Affiliate Lab.ts

Content rewrites and updates. Getting to number one is basically half of the battle. The other half is staying there. Now just think about what happened when you first wrote a specific piece of content that you were aiming to get high on Google so you could make some money. Basically what you did is you followed our procedures and you analyzed the competition you found the optimal word length, you found out all the subtopics that you should talk about, you optimized the perfect way, you analyzed the TFIDF to make sure that you were the best piece of content on page one. But what happens five, six months later when someone else new comes into that niche, they do the exact same thing if they're following the right process and they look at everyone who's ranking on page one, they try to one up you. So this process is all about just making sure that your content is still the best piece of content on page one. Now it starts with this. First thing first you need to figure out which of your pages that require a rewrite. And what we do is basically it's a simple process is every quarter we set a calendar notification that tells us let's compare the rankings today for all of our keywords. We can just do this by exporting out our rankings list from our rank tracker and comparing that to the rankings three months ago. And any keywords that are just stagnant, or perhaps dropped rankings, these are all candidates for rewrites. If something didn't move in three months or or went the wrong direction in three months, it's a decent chance that it has something to do with content or backlinks, most likely content. So it's time to take a look and see what we need to rewrite. The first thing you want to do is you want to check to see if your existing content is still accurate in terms of the reviews that it's making about the products. So this, as you can tell, applies more to single product reviews and review roundups rather than info content and stuff like that. That's more evergreen. But some examples of things that you want to take a look at would be, let's say you're reviewing supplements and there's new flavors or ingredients that come out in the products that you're reviewing, changes of specifications or features. This comes up a lot in technology niches, pricing changes if you're displaying pricing on the page, rebranding. So maybe the company got acquired by another brand, something like that, etc. and so forth. So again, this applies more to single product reviews and review roundups. And what you want to do to get this information is simply go to the landing pages of the products that you're recommending and making sure that everything's up to date. The next thing you want to take a look at is word count. So quite simple. We do the same process that we did before and we look to see what's the average of everyone ranking in the top positions. We typically take one through five or one through three, however you want to do it. And then you add 10% to that average. So just making sure that three months later, six months later after you wrote this piece of content that you're still the optimal word count. Things could happen where Google changes their algorithm and they start letting more authority sites or e-commerce sites into your space. And those typically have less words. So we just want to make sure we're not overshooting it or undershooting it, which happens too. The next thing you want to look at is TFIDF. Now TFIDF is basically niche specific keyword density and it's going to take the average of the top 10 or the people on page one. It's going to tell you how many times to put the specific words in your content. Now a few months later or maybe a year later when there's a whole different landscape on page one and different pages are ranking, these niche specific keyword densities are going to change. So it's all about just rerunning TFIDF and making sure you're still good. There's a video on TFIDF optimization and we'll link to that in the resources below. Now lastly, it's all about making sure that your piece of content contains all the subtopics that the other guys on page one have in order to answer the query. So remember, we're going to be a super set and we're going to talk about everything that each of the individual guys have on page one combined. So that's a process that's already defined in another training video and we'll link to that in the resources below. And yeah, that's pretty much it. It's really simple just to summarize. It's basically a three month review just to make sure that all the keywords that you're tracking and trying to rank for aren't being stagnant or aren't dropping. If they are, you go in and review the content, you make sure that the products you're reviewing, the reviews are accurate and they represent the current state of the product you're reviewing. You're going to look at word count, make sure you're still optimal. You're going to run TFIDF to make sure you got the right keyword densities based on the niche. And then you're going to make sure to check the subtopics and make sure that other people on page one didn't all of a sudden start talking about something completely important like a health regulation that everyone else on page one is talking about that you aren't. Stuff like that. Super simple.
